---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Subtitle E - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

SEC. 70501. COASTAL AND GREAT LAKES RESTORATION AND TECHNICAL 
              ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $9,500,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
through direct expenditure, contracts, grants, and cooperative 
agreements to provide funding and technical assistance for the purposes 
of restoring a marine, estuarine, coastal, or Great Lake habitat; or 
providing adaptation to climate change, including by protecting, 
restoring, or establishing ecological features that protects coastal 
communities from sea-level rise, coastal storms, or flooding; or 
designing or implementing blue carbon projects. None of the funds 
provided by this section shall be subject to cost share or matching 
requirements.
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70502. PACIFIC COASTAL SALMON RECOVERY FUND.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
for fiscal year 2022, out of funds in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated $400,000,000, to remain available until 2026, for the 
purposes of climate resilience, habitat protection, and other habitat 
restoration projects to recover Pacific salmon. None of the funds 
provided by this section shall be subject to cost-sharing or matching 
requirements.
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70503. NOAA STOCK ASSESSMENTS.

    (a) Stock Assessments.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $200,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2031, except that no amount may be expended after 
September 30, 2031, for carrying out section 401 of the Magnuson-
Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Reauthorization Act of 2006 
(16 U.S.C. 1881) and, section 117 of the Marine Mammal Protection Act 
of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1386) for fisheries data collections, surveys, and 
science, management, and ecosystem-based assessments in support of 
federally managed marine fisheries.
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70504. COASTAL HAZARDS AND SEA LEVEL RISE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$500,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out 
the provisions of section 12304 of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean 
Observation System Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3603), section 4 of the 
Digital Coast Act (16 U.S.C. 1467), section 310 of the Coastal Zone 
Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1456c), section 303 of the 
Hydrographic Services Improvement Act of 1988 (33 U.S.C. 892a), and the 
first section and section 2 of the Act of August 6, 1947 (chapter 504; 
33 U.S.C. 883a and 33 U.S.C. 883b), popularly known as the Coast and 
Geodetic Survey Act of 1947; for the purposes of making upgrades to the 
Integrated Ocean Observing System; making upgrades to the Shoreline 
Mapping Program; developing products, services, and coordinated 
decision-support frameworks with respect to coastal floods, sea level 
rise, Great Lakes water level, and vertical land motion data and 
conducting the research and development necessary to support such 
products and services; producing and maintaining authoritative and 
timely data, maps, charts, tidal and water level observations and 
information services for communities to plan for present and future 
coastal flood risks and to sustain the economic viability of ports and 
marine transportation system; and providing technical assistance to 
States, Insular areas, local governments, and end user at-risk 
communities.

SEC. 70505. BLUE CARBON.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$95,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out 
the provisions of section 117 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
Conservation and Management Reauthorization Act of 2006 (16 U.S.C. 
1891a); and section 309 of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (16 
U.S.C. 1440); for research and extension activities to characterize, 
quantify, map, and study blue carbon ecosystems or protection and 
restoration efforts in blue carbon ecosystems, which include marine and 
coastal freshwater, brackish, and saltwater-fed ecosystems, such as 
coastal wetland forest and other tidal or historically tidal wetlands 
that have the capacity to sequester carbon from the atmosphere for a 
period of not less than 100 years in the Gulf of Mexico region.

SEC. 70506. COASTAL HAZARDS IN UNITED STATES INSULAR AREAS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$50,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out 
the provisions of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System 
Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3601), section 4 of the Digital Coast Act (16 
U.S.C. 1467, and section 303 of the Hydrographic Services Improvement 
Act (33 U.S.C. 892a) to improve weather data collection and provide 
science, data, information, and impact-based decision support services 
to reduce tsunami, hurricane, typhoon, drought, tide, and sea-level 
rise impacts in Insular Areas.

SEC. 70507. NMFS SHORESIDE FACILITIES.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$150,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out 
the provisions of sections 404 through 408 of the Magnuson-Stevens 
Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1881c-1884), to 
replace, renovate, or maintain aging facilities in need of repair or 
replacement including piers, fisheries laboratories, and laboratory 
facilities.

SEC. 70508. NOAA VESSEL RECAPITALIZATION.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$300,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for vessel 
recapitalization needs.

SEC. 70509. CIVILIAN CLIMATE CORPS AT NOAA.

    (a) NOAA Civilian Climate Corps.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $120,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, to carry out education and job 
training projects that conserve, restore, construct, or rehabilitate 
natural, cultural, historic, archaeological, recreational, or scenic 
resources through direct expenditure, contracts, grants, and 
cooperative agreements. None of the funds provided by this section 
shall be subject to cost-sharing or matching requirements.
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70510. NOAA HATCHERIES.

    (a) NOAA Hatcheries.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $250,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, for grants to States and Indian Tribes (as defined 
in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
Act (25 U.S.C. 5304), to repair, replace, and upgrade hatchery 
infrastructure for production of a marine fishery. None of the funds 
provided by this section shall be subject to cost-sharing or matching 
requirements.
    (b) Funding Eligibility.--To be eligible to receive funding under 
this section, non-Tribal grantees must demonstrate compliance with 
prevailing wage requirements.

SEC. 70511. ELECTRONIC MONITORING.

    (a) Electronic Monitoring.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $75,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be 
expended after September 30, 2031, for the purposes of supporting the 
continued and timely implementation of electronic monitoring and 
fishing effort reporting.
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70512. WORKING WATERFRONTS.

    (a) Working Waterfronts.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $160,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be 
expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out the provisions of 
section 309 of the Coastal Zone Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1456b) 
through direct expenditure, contracts, grants, and cooperative 
agreements for projects that preserve and protect coastal access for 
water-dependent commercial activities.
    (b) Funding Eligibility.--To be eligible to receive funding under 
this section, the grantee must demonstrate compliance with prevailing 
wage requirements.

SEC. 70513. MARINE SANCTUARY AND NATIONAL ESTUARINE RESEARCH RESERVE 
              MAINTENANCE BACKLOG.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$98,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out 
the provisions of the National Marine Sanctuary Act (16 U.S.C. 1431) 
and the Coastal Zone Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1461) for construction, 
maintenance, and renovation of facilities of National Marine 
Sanctuaries and National Estuarine Research Reserves.

SEC. 70514. SEAFOOD IMPORT MONITORING PROGRAM EXPANSION.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$2,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out 
the provisions of section 307 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
Conservation and Management Reauthorization Act (16 U.S.C. 1857(1)(Q)), 
to expand the Seafood Import Monitoring Program to apply to all seafood 
and seafood products.
