---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Subtitle G - Insular Affairs

SEC. 70701. INSULAR AFFAIRS HOSPITAL AND OTHER CRITICAL HEALTH 
              INFRASTRUCTURE FUNDING.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of the Interior Office of Insular Affairs for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$993,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for hospitals and 
other critical health infrastructure in the territories. Amounts made 
available under this section shall be divided among the territories in 
accordance with needs identified by assessments completed by the 
Department of the Interior, Office of Insular Affairs, of health care 
facilities in each territory, but not less than 35 percent shall be 
provided to Guam, not less than 35 percent shall be provided to the 
United States Virgin Islands, not less than 20 percent shall be 
provided to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and not 
less than 10 percent shall be provided to American Samoa.

SEC. 70702. OFFICE OF INSULAR AFFAIRS CLIMATE CHANGE TECHNICAL 
              ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Department of the Interior Office of Insular 
Affairs for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $25,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, to provide technical assistance for climate-change 
planning, mitigation, adaptation, and resilience to United States-
affiliated Insular Areas under the Office of Insular Affairs.
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, not more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70703. SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS AGAINST THE UNITED STATES FOR CERTAIN 
              RESIDENTS OF THE ISLAND OF VIEQUES, PUERTO RICO.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Department of the Interior Office of Insular 
Affairs, for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $300,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be made available after 
September 30, 2031, to compensate through the appointment of a Special 
Master, the municipality of Vieques, and an individual claimant who is 
or was a resident, the child of a resident, or an immediate heir (as 
determined by the laws of Puerto Rico) of a deceased claimant who was a 
resident on the island of Vieques, Puerto Rico, in the period or after 
the United States Government used the island of Vieques, Puerto Rico, 
for military readiness.
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, not more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70704. DEFINITIONS.

    For the purposes of this subtitle:
            (1) Freely associated states.--The term ``Freely Associated 
        States'' means the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the 
        Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau.
            (2) United states-affiliated insular areas.--The term 
        ``United States-affiliated Insular Areas'' means the 
        territories and Freely Associated States.
            (3) Territories.--The term ``territories'' means American 
        Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, 
        Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States.
            (4) Territory.--The term ``territory'' means American 
        Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, 
        Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands of the United States.
