---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Subtitle H - Energy and Mineral Resources

SEC. 70801. OFFSHORE WIND FOR THE TERRITORIES.

    (a) Application of Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act With Respect 
to Territories of the United States.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf 
        Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``The term'' and inserting 
                        the following:
            ``(1) The term''
                            (ii) by inserting after ``control'' the 
                        following: ``or lying within the exclusive 
                        economic zone of the United States and the 
                        outer Continental Shelf adjacent to any 
                        territory of the United States''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) The term `outer Continental Shelf' does not include 
        any area conveyed by Congress to a territorial government for 
        administration.'';
                    (B) in subsection (p), by striking ``and'' after 
                the semicolon at the end;
                    (C) in subsection (q), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(r) The term `State' means any of the several States and also 
includes Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands of the 
United States, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.''.
            (2) Exclusions.--Section 18 of the Outer Continental Shelf 
        Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1344) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
    ``(i) This section shall not apply to the scheduling of any lease 
sale in an area of the outer Continental Shelf that is adjacent to 
Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands of the United 
States, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.''.
    (b) Wind Lease Sales for Areas of the Outer Continental Shelf.--The 
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 33. WIND LEASE SALES FOR AREAS OF THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF 
              OFFSHORE OF TERRITORIES OF THE UNITED STATES.

    ``(a) Wind Lease Sales Off Coasts of Territories of the United 
States.--
            ``(1) Call for information and nominations.--The Secretary 
        shall issue a call for information and nominations for proposed 
        wind lease sales for areas determined to be feasible.
            ``(2) Conditional wind lease sales.--For areas lying within 
        the exclusive economic zone of the United States adjacent to 
        Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands of the 
        United States, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
        Islands, the Secretary shall conduct not less than one wind 
        lease sale in each such area, so long as:
                    ``(A) The Secretary has concluded that a wind lease 
                sale on the area is feasible.
                    ``(B) The Secretary has determined that there is 
                sufficient interest in leasing the area.
                    ``(C) The Secretary has consulted with other 
                relevant Federal agencies regarding such sale.
                    ``(D) The Secretary has consulted with the Governor 
                of the territory regarding the suitability of the area 
                for wind energy development.''.

SEC. 70802. LEASING ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF.

    (a) Leasing Authorized.--The Secretary of the Interior is 
authorized to grant leases, easements, and rights-of-way pursuant to 
section 8(p)(1)(C) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
1337(p)(1)(C)) in the areas withdrawn by the Presidential Memorandum 
entitled ``Memorandum on the Withdrawal of Certain Areas of the United 
States Outer Continental Shelf from Leasing Disposition'' (issued 
September 8, 2020) and the Presidential Memorandum entitled 
``Presidential Determination on the Withdrawal of Certain Areas of the 
United States Outer Continental Shelf from Leasing Disposition'' 
(issued September 25, 2020).
    (b) Withdrawals.--Any Presidential withdrawal of an area of the 
Outer Continental Shelf from leasing under section 12(a) of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1341(a)) issued after the date 
of enactment of this Act shall apply only to leasing authorized under 
subsections (a) and (i) of section 8 of the Outer Continental Shelf 
Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337(a) and 1337(i)), unless otherwise specified.

SEC. 70803. UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.

    (a) 3D Elevation Program.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the United States Geological Survey 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $50,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
to carry out the 3D elevation program (43 U.S.C. 3104).
    (b) Climate Adaptation Science Centers.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise available, there is appropriated to the United States 
Geological Survey for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be expended after 
September 30, 2031, for the Regional and National Climate Adaptation 
Science Centers to provide localized information to help communities 
respond to climate change.

SEC. 70804. FOSSIL FUEL RESOURCES.

    (a) Repeal of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge Oil and Gas 
Program.--Section 20001 of Public Law 115-97 is repealed and any leases 
issued pursuant to section 20001 of Public Law 115-97 are hereby 
cancelled and all payments related to the leases shall be returned to 
the lessee(s) within 30 days of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Protection of the Eastern Gulf, Atlantic, and Pacific Coasts.--
Section 8 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(q) Prohibition of Oil and Gas Leasing in Certain Areas of the 
Outer Continental Shelf.--The Secretary of the Interior may not issue a 
lease or any other authorization for the exploration, development, or 
production of oil or natural gas in the areas of the Outer Continental 
Shelf designated by section 104(a) of the Gulf of Mexico Energy 
Security Act of 2006 or in any area within the Atlantic Region planning 
areas or the Pacific Region planning areas (as such planning areas are 
described in the document entitled `2017 - 2022 Outer Continental Shelf 
Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program' dated November 2016, or a 
subsequent oil and gas leasing program developed under section 18 of 
the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1344).''.
    (c) Onshore Fossil Fuel Royalty Rates.--The Mineral Leasing Act (30 
U.S.C. 207) is amended--
            (1) in section 7(a), by striking ``12\1/2\'' and inserting 
        ``20'';
            (2) in section 17, by--
                    (A) striking ``12.5'' each place such term appears 
                and inserting ``20''; and
                    (B) striking ``12 \1/2\'' each place such term 
                appears and inserting ``20''; and
            (3) in section 31(e), by striking ``16 \2/3\'' both places 
        such term appears and inserting ``25''.
    (d) Offshore Oil and Gas Royalty Rate.--Section 8 of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337) is amended by striking--
            (1) ``12 \1/2\'' each place such term appears and inserting 
        ``20''; and
            (2) ``12 and \1/2\'' each place such term appears and 
        inserting ``20''.
    (e) Oil and Gas Minimum Bid.--Section 17 of the Mineral Leasing Act 
(30 U.S.C. 226) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1)(B)--
                    (A) by striking ``$2 per acre'' and inserting ``$10 
                per acre, except as otherwise provided by this 
                paragraph''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Federal Onshore Oil and Gas 
                Leasing Reform Act of 1987'' and inserting ``subtitle H 
                of the Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to 
                title II of S. Con. Res. 14 of the 117th Congress'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(2)(C), by striking ``$2 per acre'' 
        and inserting ``$10 per acre''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(q) Inflation Adjustment.--The Secretary shall--
            ``(1) by regulation, at least once every 4 years, adjust 
        each of the dollar amounts that apply under subsections 
        (b)(1)(B), (b)(2)(C), and (d) to reflect the change in 
        inflation; and
            ``(2) publish each such regulation in the Federal 
        Register.''.
    (f) Deferred Coal Bonus Payments.--Section 2(a) of the Mineral 
Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 201(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking the second and third 
        sentences; and
            (2) by striking paragraphs (4) and (5).
    (g) Fossil Fuel Rental Rates.--
            (1) Section 7(a) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 207) 
        is amended in the third sentence by inserting ``at a rental 
        rate of not less than $100 per acre (as reviewed and, if 
        appropriate, adjusted by the Secretary every 4 years)'' before 
        the period.
            (2) Section 17(d) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 
        226(d)) is amended in the first sentence by striking ``$1.50 
        per acre per year for the first through fifth years of the 
        lease and not less than $2 per acre per year for each year 
        thereafter'' and inserting ``$3 per acre per year during the 2-
        year period beginning on the date the lease begins for new 
        leases, and after the end of such two-year period not less than 
        $5 per acre per year''.
            (3) Section 31(e) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 
        188(e)) is amended by striking ``$10'' and inserting ``$20''.
    (h) Fossil Fuel Lease Term Length.--
            (1) Section 7 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 207) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in the first sentence, by striking 
                        ``twenty'' and inserting ``10'';
                            (ii) in the second sentence, by striking 
                        ``ten'' and inserting ``5''; and
                            (iii) in the sixth sentence--
                                    (I) by striking ``twenty'' and 
                                inserting ``10''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``ten'' and 
                                inserting ``5''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)(5), by striking ``20'' and 
                inserting ``10''.
            (2) Section 17(e) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 
        226(e)) is amended by striking ``10 years:'' and inserting ``5 
        years.''.
    (i) Expression of Interest Fee.--Section 17 of the Mineral Leasing 
Act (30 U.S.C. 226), as amended by this subtitle is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(r) Fee for Expression of Interest.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall charge any person 
        who submits, in accordance with procedures established by the 
        Secretary to carry out this subsection, an expression of 
        interest in leasing land available for disposition under this 
        section for exploration for, and development of, oil or gas a 
        fee in an amount determined by the Secretary under paragraph 
        (2).
            ``(2) Amount.--The fee authorized under paragraph (1) shall 
        be established by the Secretary in an amount that is determined 
        by the Secretary to be appropriate to cover the aggregate cost 
        of processing an expression of interest under this subsection, 
        but not less than $15 per acre of the area covered by the 
        applicable expression of interest.
            ``(3) Adjustment of fee.--The Secretary shall, by 
        regulation at least every 4 years, establish a higher 
        expression of interest fee--
                    ``(A) to reflect the change in inflation; and
                    ``(B) as the Secretary determines to be necessary 
                to enhance financial returns to the United States.''.
    (j) Elimination of Noncompetitive Leasing.--The Mineral Leasing Act 
is amended--
            (1) in section 17(b) (30 U.S.C. 226(b)), by striking 
        paragraph (3);
            (2) by amending section 17(c) (30 U.S.C. 226(c)) to read as 
        follows:
    ``(c) Lands made available for leasing under subsection (b)(1) but 
for which no bid is accepted may be made available by the Secretary for 
a new round of sealed bidding under such subsection.'';
            (3) in section 17(e) (30 U.S.C. 226(e))--
                    (A) by striking ``Competitive and noncompetitive 
                leases'' and inserting ``Leases, including leases for 
                tar sand areas,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Provided, however'' and all that 
                follows through ``ten years.'';
            (4) in section 31(d)(1) (30 U.S.C. 188(d)(1)) by striking 
        ``or (c)'';
            (5) in section 31(e) (30 U.S.C. 188(e))--
                    (A) in paragraph (2) by striking ``, or the 
                inclusion'' and all that follows and inserting a 
                semicolon; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3) by striking ``(A)'' and by 
                striking subparagraph (B);
            (6) by striking section 31(f) (30 U.S.C. 188(f)); and
            (7) in section 31(g) (30 U.S.C. 188(g))--
                    (A) in paragraph (1) by striking ``as a 
                competitive'' and all that follows through the period 
                and inserting ``in the same manner as the original 
                lease issued pursuant to section 17.'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2) and redesignating 
                paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (2) and (3), 
                respectively; and
                    (C) in paragraph (2), as redesignated, by striking 
                ``, applicable to leases issued under subsection 17(c) 
                of this Act (30 U.S.C. 226(c)) except,'' and inserting 
                ``, except''.
    (k) Oil and Gas Bonding Requirements.--Section 17(g) of the Mineral 
Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(g)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``Each such bond, surety, or other 
        financial arrangement shall be considered inadequate if such 
        bond, surety, or other financial arrangement is for less than 
        $150,000 in the case of an arrangement for an individual 
        surface-disturbing activity of each entity on an individual oil 
        or gas lease in a State, or $500,000 in the case of an 
        arrangement for all surface-disturbing activities of each 
        entity on all oil and gas leases in a State.'' after ``on the 
        lease.'';
            (2) by redesignating existing subsection (g) as paragraph 
        (1); and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2)(A) Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of subtitle H of the Act to provide for 
        reconciliation pursuant to title II of S. Con. Res. 14 of the 
        117th Congress the Secretary concerned shall initiate a 
        rulemaking to require that an adequate bond, surety, or other 
        financial arrangement be provided by the lessee prior to the 
        commencement of surface-disturbing activities on any lease 
        issued under this Act to ensure the complete and timely 
        remediation and reclamation of any land, water, or other 
        resources (including resources with recreation, range, timber, 
        mineral, watershed, fish or wildlife, natural scenic, 
        scientific, or historical value) adversely affected by lease 
        activities and operations after the abandonment or cessation of 
        oil and gas operations on the lease.
            ``(B) The Secretary concerned shall find that a bond, 
        surety or other financial arrangement required by regulation 
        under subparagraph (A) is inadequate if it is for less than--
                    ``(i) the complete and timely reclamation of the 
                lease tract;
                    ``(ii) the restoration of any lands or surface 
                waters adversely affected by lease operations after the 
                abandonment or cessation of oil and gas operations on 
                the lease; and
                    ``(iii) in the case of an idled well, the total 
                plugging and reclamation costs for each idled well 
                controlled by the same operator.
            ``(C) The Secretary concerned shall review the adequacy of 
        each such bond, surety, or other financial arrangement at least 
        once every 5 years and anytime a lease issued under this Act is 
        transferred.''.
    (l) Per-acre Lease Fees.--
            (1) Oil and gas lease fees.--The Secretary of Interior 
        shall charge onshore and offshore oil and gas leaseholders the 
        following annual, non-refundable fees:
                    (A) Conservation of resources fee.--There is 
                established a Conservation of Resources Fee of $4 per 
                acre per year on new producing Federal onshore and 
                offshore oil and gas leases.
                    (B) Speculative leasing fee.--There is established 
                a Speculative Leasing Fee of $6 per acre per year on 
                new nonproducing Federal onshore and offshore oil and 
                gas leases.
            (2) Deposit.--All funds collected pursuant to paragraph (1) 
        shall be deposited into the United States Treasury General 
        Fund.
            (3) Adjustment for inflation.--The Secretary of the 
        Interior shall, by regulation at least once every four years, 
        adjust each fee created by paragraph (1) to reflect any 
        increase in inflation.
    (m) Onshore Oil and Gas Inspection Fees.--
            (1) In general.--Section 108 of the Federal Oil and Gas 
        Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1718) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Inspection Fees.--
            ``(1) In general.--The designated operator under each oil 
        and gas lease on Federal or Indian lands, or each unit and 
        communitization agreement that includes one or more such 
        Federal or Indian leases, that is subject to inspection under 
        subsection (b) and that is in force at the start of the fiscal 
        year 2021, shall pay a nonrefundable annual inspection fee in 
        an amount that, except as provided in paragraph (2), is 
        established by the Secretary by regulation and is sufficient to 
        recover the full costs incurred by the United States for 
        inspection and enforcement with respect to such leases.
            ``(2) Amount.--Until the effective date of regulations 
        under paragraph (1), the amount of the fee shall be--
                    ``(A) $800 for each lease or unit or 
                communitization agreement with no active or inactive 
                wells, but with surface use, disturbance or 
                reclamation;
                    ``(B) $1,400 for each lease or unit or 
                communitization agreement with 1 to 10 wells, with any 
                combination of active or inactive wells;
                    ``(C) $5,600 for each lease or unit or 
                communitization agreement with 11 to 50 wells, with any 
                combination of active or inactive wells; and
                    ``(D) $11,300 for each lease or unit or 
                communitization agreement with more than 50 wells, with 
                any combination of active or inactive wells.
            ``(3) Due date.--Payment of the fee under this section 
        shall be due, annually, not later than 30 days after the 
        Secretary provides notice of the assessment of the fee.
            ``(4) Penalty.--If the designated operator fails to pay the 
        full amount of the fee as prescribed in this section, the 
        Secretary may, in addition to utilizing any other applicable 
        enforcement authority, assess civil penalties against the 
        operator under section 109 in the same manner as if this 
        section were a mineral leasing law.
            ``(5) Exemption for tribal operators.--An operator that is 
        a Tribe or is controlled by a Tribe is not subject to paragraph 
        (1) with respect to a lease, unit, or communitization agreement 
        that is located entirely on the lands of such Tribe.''.
            (2) Assessment for fiscal year 2022.--The Secretary of the 
        Interior shall assess the fee under the amendment made by 
        paragraph (1) for fiscal year 2022, and provide notice of such 
        assessment to each designated operator who is liable for such 
        fee, by not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
    (n) Offshore Oil and Gas Inspection Fees.--Section 22 of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1348) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(g) Inspection Fees.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Establishment.--The Secretary shall collect 
                from the operators of facilities subject to inspection 
                under subsection (c) nonrefundable fees for such 
                inspections--
                            ``(i) at an aggregate level to offset the 
                        annual expenses of such inspections;
                            ``(ii) using a schedule that reflect the 
                        differences in complexity among the classes of 
                        facilities to be inspected; and
                            ``(iii) in accordance with subparagraph 
                        (C).
                    ``(B) Adjustment for inflation.--For each fiscal 
                year beginning after fiscal year 2022, the Secretary 
                shall adjust the amount of the fees collected under 
                this paragraph for inflation.
                    ``(C) Fees for fiscal year 2022.--
                            ``(i) Annual fees.--For fiscal year 2022, 
                        the Secretary shall collect annual fees from 
                        the operator of facilities that are above the 
                        waterline, excluding drilling rigs, and are in 
                        place at the start of the fiscal year in the 
                        following amounts:
                                    ``(I) $11,725 for facilities with 
                                no wells, but with processing equipment 
                                or gathering lines.
                                    ``(II) $18,984 for facilities with 
                                1 to 10 wells, with any combination of 
                                active or inactive wells.
                                    ``(III) $35,176 for facilities with 
                                more than 10 wells, with any 
                                combination of active or inactive 
                                wells.
                            ``(ii) Fees for drilling rigs.--For fiscal 
                        year 2022, the Secretary shall collect fees for 
                        each inspection from the operators of drilling 
                        rigs in the following amounts:
                                    ``(I) $34,059 per inspection for 
                                rigs operating in water depths of 500 
                                feet or more.
                                    ``(II) $18,649 per inspection for 
                                rigs operating in water depths of less 
                                than 500 feet.
                            ``(iii) Fees for non-rig units.--For fiscal 
                        year 2022, the Secretary shall collect fees for 
                        each inspection from the operators of well 
                        operations conducted via non-rig units as 
                        outlined in subparts D, E, F, and Q of part 250 
                        of title 30, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
                        any successor regulation), in the following 
                        amounts:
                                    ``(I) $13,260 per inspection for 
                                non-rig units operating in water depths 
                                of 2,500 feet or more.
                                    ``(II) $11,530 per inspection for 
                                non-rig units operating in water depths 
                                between 500 and 2,499 feet.
                                    ``(III) $4,470 per inspection for 
                                non-rig units operating in water depths 
                                of less than 500 feet.
            ``(2) Disposition.--Amounts collected as fees under 
        paragraph (1) shall be deposited into the general fund of the 
        Treasury.
            ``(3) Billing.--
                    ``(A) Annual fees.--The Secretary shall bill 
                designated operators under paragraph (1)(C)(i) 
                annually, with payment required not later than 30 days 
                after such billing.
                    ``(B) Fees for drilling rigs.--The Secretary shall 
                bill designated operators under paragraph (1)(C)(ii) 
                not later than 30 days after the end of the month in 
                which the inspection occurred, with payment required 
                not later than 30 days after such billing.
            ``(4) Publication.--The Secretary shall annually make 
        available to the public the following information about each 
        fee deposited into the Fund:
                    ``(A) The facility that was inspected.
                    ``(B) The name of the operator of such facility.
                    ``(C) The amount of the payment.''.
    (o) Severance Fees.--The Secretary of Interior shall collect 
annual, non-refundable fees on fossil fuels produced from new leases on 
Federal lands and the Outer Continental Shelf and deposit the funds 
into the United States Treasury General Fund. Such fees shall be--
            (1) not less than $0.50 per barrel of oil equivalent on oil 
        and natural gas produced from Federal lands and the Outer 
        Continental Shelf; and
            (2) not less than $2 per metric ton of coal produced from 
        Federal lands.
    (p) Idled Well Fees.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall, not later than 180 
        days after the date of enactment of this section, issue 
        regulations to require each operator of an idled well on 
        Federal land and the Outer Continental Shelf to pay an annual, 
        nonrefundable fee for each such idled well in accordance with 
        this subsection.
            (2) Amounts.--Except as provided in paragraph (5), the 
        amount of the fee shall be as follows:
                    (A) $500 for each well that has been considered an 
                idled well for at least 1 year, but not more than 5 
                years.
                    (B) $1,500 for each well that has been considered 
                an idled well for at least 5 years, but not more than 
                10 years.
                    (C) $3,500 for each well that has been considered 
                an idled well for at least 10 years, but not more than 
                15 years.
                    (D) $7,500 for each well that has been considered 
                an idled well for at least 15 years.
            (3) Due date.--An owner of an idled well that is required 
        to pay a fee under this subsection shall submit to the 
        Secretary such fee by not later than October 1 of each year.
            (4) Civil penalty.--If the operator of a idled well fails 
        to pay the full amount of a fee under this subsection, the 
        Secretary may assess a civil penalty against the operator under 
        section 109 of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act 
        of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1719) as if such failure to pay were a 
        violation under such section.
            (5) Adjustment for inflation.--The Secretary shall, by 
        regulation not less than once every 4 years, adjust each fee 
        under this subsection to account for inflation.
            (6) Deposit.--All funds collected pursuant to paragraph (1) 
        shall be deposited into the United States Treasury General 
        Fund.
            (7) Idled well definition.--For the purposes of this 
        section, the term ``idled well'' means a well that has been 
        non-operational for at least two consecutive years and for 
        which there is no anticipated beneficial future use.
    (q) Annual Pipeline Owners Fee.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental 
Enforcement shall issue regulations to assess an annual fee on owners 
of offshore oil and gas pipelines. Such fee shall not qualify as a 
transportation allowance or as a deductible cost in calculating 
royalties due to the United States and shall be no less than--
            (1) $10,000 per mile for such pipelines in water with a 
        depth of 500 feet or greater; and
            (2) $1,000 per mile for pipelines in water depth of under 
        500 feet.
    (r) Royalties on All Extracted Methane.--
            (1) Assessment on all production.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), royalties paid for gas produced from Federal lands 
                and on the Outer Continental Shelf shall be assessed on 
                all gas produced, including--
                            (i) gas used or consumed within the area of 
                        the lease tract for the benefit of the lease; 
                        and
                            (ii) all gas that is consumed or lost by 
                        venting, flaring, or fugitive releases through 
                        any equipment during upstream operations.
                    (B) Exception.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply 
                with respect to--
                            (i) gas vented or flared for not longer 
                        than 48 hours in an acute emergency situation 
                        that poses a danger to human health; and
                            (ii) gas used or consumed within the area 
                        of the lease tract for the benefit of the lease 
                        when the operator is a Tribe or is controlled 
                        by a Tribe that is located entirely on the 
                        lands of such Tribe.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Mineral leasing act.--The Mineral Leasing Act 
                is amended--
                            (i) in section 14 (30 U.S.C. 223), by 
                        adding at the end the following: ``Royalties 
                        shall be assessed with respect to oil and gas, 
                        other than gas vented or flared for not longer 
                        than 48 hours in an acute emergency situation 
                        that poses a danger to human health and gas 
                        used or gas consumed within the area of the 
                        lease tract for the benefit of the lease when 
                        the operator is a Tribe or is controlled by a 
                        Tribe that is located entirely on the lands of 
                        such Tribe, without regard to whether oil or 
                        gas is removed or sold from the leased land.'';
                            (ii) in section 22 (30 U.S.C. 251), by 
                        striking ``sold or removed''; and
                            (iii) in section 31 (30 U.S.C. 188), by 
                        striking ``removed or sold'' each place it 
                        appears.
                    (B) Outer continental shelf lands act.--The Outer 
                Continental Shelf Lands Act is amended--
                            (i) in section 6(a)(8) (43 U.S.C. 
                        1335(a)(8)), by striking ``saved, removed, or 
                        sold'' each place it appears; and
                            (ii) in section 8(a) (43 U.S.C. 1337(a))--
                                    (I) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                                ``saved, removed, or sold'' each place 
                                it appears; and
                                    (II) by adding at the end the 
                                following:
            ``(9) Royalties under this Act shall be assessed with 
        respect to oil and gas, other than gas vented or flared for not 
        longer than 48 hours in an acute emergency situation that poses 
        a danger to human health and gas used or gas consumed within 
        the area of the lease tract for the benefit of the lease when 
        the operator is a Tribe or is controlled by a Tribe that is 
        located entirely on the lands of such Tribe, without regard to 
        whether oil or gas is removed or sold from the leased land.''.
    (s) Elimination of Royalty Relief.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Outer continental shelf lands act relating to 
                the suspension of royalties.--Section 8(a)(1)(H) of the 
                Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
                1337(a)(1)(H)) is amended by striking ``, and with 
                suspension of royalties for a period, volume, or value 
                of production determined by the Secretary, which 
                suspensions may vary based on the price of production 
                from the lease''.
                    (B) Outer continental shelf lands act relating to 
                the suspension of royalties.--Section 8(a)(1)(H) of the 
                Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
                1337(a)(1)(H)) is amended by striking ``, and with 
                suspension of royalties for a period, volume, or value 
                of production determined by the Secretary, which 
                suspensions may vary based on the price of production 
                from the lease''.
                    (C) Outer continental shelf lands act.--Section 
                8(a)(3) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
                U.S.C. 1337(a)(3)) is amended--
                            (i) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B); 
                        and
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as 
                        subparagraph (A).
                    (D) Energy policy act of 2005.--
                            (i) Incentives for natural gas production 
                        from deep wells in the shallow waters of the 
                        gulf of mexico.--Section 344 of the Energy 
                        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15904) is 
                        repealed.
                            (ii) Deep water production.--Section 345 of 
                        the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15905) 
                        is repealed.
            (2) Future provisions.--Royalty relief shall not be 
        permitted under a lease issued under section 8 of the Outer 
        Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337).
            (3) Provisions relating to naval petroleum reserve in 
        alaska.--Section 107 of the Naval Petroleum Reserves Production 
        Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6506a) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (i), by striking paragraphs (2) 
                through (6); and
                    (B) by striking subsection (k).
            (4) Royalty relief under the mineral leasing act.--
                    (A) Repeal.--Section 39 of the Mineral Leasing Act 
                (30 U.S.C. 209) is repealed.
                    (B) Conforming amendments.--
                            (i) Section 8721(b) of title 10, United 
                        States Code, is amended by striking ``202-209'' 
                        and inserting ``202-208''.
                            (ii) Section 8735(a) of title 10, United 
                        States Code, is amended by striking ``202-209'' 
                        and inserting ``202-208''.
                            (iii) Section 31(h) of the Mineral Leasing 
                        Act (30 U.S.C. 188(h)) is amended by striking 
                        ``and the provisions of section 39 of this 
                        Act''.

SEC. 70805. CIVIL AND CRIMINAL PENALTIES.

    (a) Mineral Leasing Act.--Section 41 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 
U.S.C. 195) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``$500,000'' and 
        inserting ``$1,000,000''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``$100,000'' and 
        inserting ``$250,000''.
    (b) Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982.--The 
Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 is amended--
            (1) in section 109 (30 U.S.C. 1719)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``$500'' and 
                inserting ``$1,500'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``$5,000''and 
                inserting ``$15,000'';
                    (C) in subsection (c)(3), by striking ``$10,000'' 
                and inserting ``$30,000'';
                    (D) in subsection (d)(3), by striking ``$25,000'' 
                and inserting ``$75,000'';
                    (E) by redesignating existing subsections (e) 
                through (l) as (f) through (m), respectively; and
                    (F) by adding at the end:
    ``(n) Inflation Adjustment of Maximum Penalties.--
            ``(1) The maximum civil penalty amounts listed in 
        subsections (a) through (d) shall automatically adjust for 
        inflation on the 1st day of each calendar year in accordance 
        with the provisions of this subsection.
            ``(2) The inflation adjustment under this subsection shall 
        be based on the Consumer Price Index published by the 
        Department of Labor for all Urban Consumers (CPI-U) and shall 
        be calculated by the percentage change, if any, by which the 
        CPI-U for the month of October preceding the adjustment date 
        exceeds the CPI-U for the month of October one year before.
            ``(3) The Secretary will provide sufficient notice of 
        adjusted penalties by publishing the adjusted maximum civil 
        penalty amounts on a public website of the Department.
            ``(4) The Secretary will provide notice, in writing, to the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the Department's intent to 
        adjust such penalties 180 days before publishing the adjusted 
        maximum civil penalty amounts on a public website of the 
        Department under paragraph (3).''; and
            (2) in section 110, by striking ``$50,000'' and inserting 
        ``$150,000''.
    (c) Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act.--
            (1) Civil penalty, generally.--Section 24(b) of the Outer 
        Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1350(b)) is amended to 
        read as follows:
    ``(b) Civil Penalties.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), any 
        person who fails to comply with any provision of this Act, or 
        any term of a lease, license, or permit issued pursuant to this 
        Act, or any regulation or order issued under this Act, shall be 
        liable for a civil administrative penalty of not more than 
        $75,000 for each day of the continuance of such failure. The 
        Secretary may assess, collect, and compromise any such penalty.
            ``(2) Opportunity for a hearing.--No penalty shall be 
        assessed until the person charged with a violation has been 
        given an opportunity for a hearing.
            ``(3) Adjustment for inflation.--The Secretary shall, by 
        regulation at least every 3 years, adjust the penalty specified 
        in this paragraph to reflect any increases in inflation.
            ``(4) Threat of harm.--If a failure described in paragraph 
        (1) constitutes or constituted a threat of harm or damage to 
        life, property, any mineral deposit, or the marine, coastal, or 
        human environment, a civil penalty of not more than $150,000 
        shall be assessed for each day of the continuance of the 
        failure.''.
            (2) Knowing and willful violations.--Section 24(c) of the 
        Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1350(c)) is 
        amended by striking ``$100,000'' and inserting ``$1,000,000''.
            (3) Officers and agents of corporations.--Section 24(d) of 
        the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1350(d)) is 
        amended by striking ``knowingly and willfully authorized, 
        ordered, or carried out'' and inserting ``authorized, ordered, 
        carried out, or through reckless disregard of the law caused''.

SEC. 70806. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO FOGRMA.

    (a) Amendments to Definitions.--Section 3 of the Federal Oil and 
Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1702) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (20)(A), by striking ``: Provided, That'' 
        and all that follows through ``subject of the judicial 
        proceeding'';
            (2) in paragraph (20)(B), by striking ``(with written 
        notice to the lessee who designated the designee)'';
            (3) in paragraph (23)(A), by striking ``(with written 
        notice to the lessee who designated the designee)'';
            (4) by amending paragraph (24) to read as follows:
            ``(24) `designee' means a person who pays, offsets, or 
        credits monies, makes adjustments, requests and receives 
        refunds, or submits reports with respect to payments a lessee 
        must make pursuant to section 102(a);'';
            (5) in paragraph (25), in subparagraph (B)--
                    (A) by striking ``(subject to the provisions of 
                section 102(a) of this Act)''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking subclause (IV) and 
                all that follows through the end of the subparagraph 
                and inserting the following:
                                    ``(IV) any assignment, that arises 
                                from or relates to any lease, easement, 
                                right-of-way, permit, or other 
                                agreement regardless of form 
                                administered by the Secretary for, or 
                                any mineral leasing law related to, the 
                                exploration, production, and 
                                development of oil and gas or other 
                                energy resource on Federal lands or the 
                                Outer Continental Shelf;''; and
            (6) in paragraph (29), by inserting ``or permit'' after 
        ``lease''.
    (b) Compliance Reviews.--Section 101 of the Federal Oil and Gas 
Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1711) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) The Secretary may, as an adjunct to audits of accounts for 
leases, conduct compliance reviews of accounts. Such reviews shall not 
constitute nor substitute for audits of lease accounts. The Secretary 
shall immediately refer any disparity uncovered in such a compliance 
review to a program auditor. The Secretary shall, before completion of 
a compliance review, provide notice of the review to designees whose 
obligations are the subject of the review.''.
    (c) Liability for Royalty Payments.--Section 102(a) of the Federal 
Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1712(a)) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Liability for Royalty Payments.--
            ``(1) Time and manner of payment.--In order to increase 
        receipts and achieve effective collections of royalty and other 
        payments, a lessee who is required to make any royalty or other 
        payment under a lease, easement, right-of-way, permit, or other 
        agreement, regardless of form, or under the mineral leasing 
        laws, shall make such payment in the time and manner as may be 
        specified by the Secretary or the applicable delegated State.
            ``(2) Designee.--Any person who pays, offsets, or credits 
        monies, makes adjustments, requests and receives refunds, or 
        submits reports with respect to payments the lessee must make 
        is the lessee's designee under this Act.
            ``(3) Liability.--A designee shall be liable for any 
        payment obligation of any lessee on whose behalf the designee 
        pays royalty under the lease. The person owning operating 
        rights in a lease and a person owning legal record title in a 
        lease shall be liable for that person's pro rata share of 
        payment obligations under the lease.''.
    (d) Recordkeeping.--Section 103(b) of the Federal Oil and Gas 
Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1713(b)) is amended by 
striking ``6'' and inserting ``7''.
    (e) Adjustments and Refunds.--Section 111A of the Federal Oil and 
Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1721a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
            ``(3)(A) An adjustment or a request for a refund for an 
        obligation may be made after the adjustment period only upon 
        written notice to and approval by the Secretary or the 
        applicable delegated State, as appropriate, during an audit of 
        the period which includes the production month for which the 
        adjustment is being made.
            ``(B) Except as provided in subparagraph (C), no adjustment 
        may be made with respect to an obligation after the completion 
        of an audit or compliance review of such obligation unless such 
        adjustment is approved by the Secretary or the applicable 
        delegated State, as appropriate.
            ``(C) If an overpayment is identified during an audit, the 
        Secretary shall allow a credit in the amount of the 
        overpayment.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4)--
                            (i) by striking ``six-year'' and inserting 
                        ``four-year''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``period shall'' and 
                        inserting ``period may''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) is made within the adjustment period for that 
                obligation.''.
    (f) Obligation Period.--
            (1) Section 115(b)(1) of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty 
        Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1724(b)(1)) is amended to 
        read as follows:
            ``(1) The Secretary or a delegated State shall commence a 
        judicial proceeding or demand which arises from, or relates to 
        an obligation, within seven years from the date on which the 
        obligation becomes due and if not so commenced shall be barred. 
        A lessee shall commence a judicial proceeding or demand which 
        arises from, or relates to an obligation, within four years 
        from the date on which an obligation becomes due and if not so 
        commenced shall be barred. If the Secretary, a delegated State, 
        a lessee, or designee is barred from commencement of a judicial 
        proceeding or demand for an obligation, it--
                    ``(A) shall not take any other or further action 
                regarding that obligation, including (but not limited 
                to) the issuance of any order, request, demand or other 
                communication seeking any document, accounting, 
                determination, calculation, recalculation, payment, 
                principal, interest, assessment, or penalty or the 
                initiation, pursuit or completion of an audit with 
                respect to that obligation; and
                    ``(B) shall not pursue any other equitable or legal 
                remedy, including equitable recoupment, whether under 
                statute or common law, with respect to an action on, 
                defense against, or an enforcement of said 
                obligation.''.
            (2) Section 115(c) of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty 
        Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1724(c)) is amended by adding 
        at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Adjustments.--In the case of an adjustment under 
        section 111A(a) in which a recoupment by the lessee results in 
        an underpayment of an obligation, the obligation becomes due on 
        the date the lessee or its designee makes the adjustment.''.
    (g) Appeals.--Section 115(h) of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty 
Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1724(h)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), in the heading, by striking ``33-
        month'' and inserting ``48-month'';
            (2) by striking ``33 months'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``48 months''; and
            (3) by striking ``33-month'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``48-month''.
    (h) Penalty for Late or Incorrect Reporting of Data.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall issue 
        regulations by not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act that establish a civil penalty for late 
        or incorrect reporting of data under the Federal Oil and Gas 
        Royalty Management Act of 1982.
            (2) Amount.--The amount of the civil penalty shall be--
                    (A) an amount that the Secretary determines is 
                sufficient to ensure filing of data in accordance with 
                that Act; and
                    (B) not less than $10 for each failure to file 
                correct data in accordance with that Act.
            (3) Content of regulations.--Except as provided in 
        paragraph (2), the regulations issued under this section shall 
        be substantially similar to section 216.40 of title 30, Code of 
        Federal Regulations, as most recently in effect before the date 
        of enactment of this Act.
    (i) Shared Penalties.--Section 206 of the Federal Oil and Gas 
Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1736) is amended by striking 
``Any payments under this section shall be reduced by an amount equal 
to any payments provided or due to such State or Indian Tribe under the 
cooperative agreement or delegation, as applicable, during the fiscal 
year in which the civil penalty is received, up to the total amount 
provided or due for that fiscal year.''.
    (j) Adjustments and Refunds.--Section 111A of the Federal Oil and 
Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1721a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
            ``(3)(A) An adjustment or a request for a refund for an 
        obligation may be made after the adjustment period only upon 
        written notice to and approval by the Secretary or the 
        applicable delegated State, as appropriate, during an audit of 
        the period which includes the production month for which the 
        adjustment is being made.
            ``(B) Except as provided in subparagraph (C), no adjustment 
        may be made with respect to an obligation after the completion 
        of an audit or compliance review of such obligation unless such 
        adjustment is approved by the Secretary or the applicable 
        delegated State, as appropriate.
            ``(C) If an overpayment is identified during an audit, the 
        Secretary shall allow a credit in the amount of the 
        overpayment.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4)--
                            (i) by striking ``six-year'' and inserting 
                        ``four-year''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``period shall'' and 
                        inserting ``period may''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) is made within the adjustment period for that 
                obligation.''.
    (k) Tolling Agreements and Subpoenas.--
            (1) Tolling agreements.--Section 115(d)(1) of the Federal 
        Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 
        1724(d)(1)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``(with notice to the lessee who 
                designated the designee)''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end ``A tolling agreement 
                executed by a designee shall bind both the owner of 
                legal record title in a lease and the owner of 
                operating rights in a lease, and any designee. The 
                owner of the legal record title and the owner of 
                operating rights in a lease shall be bound by the 
                tolling agreement to the extent of their pro rata share 
                of payment obligations under the lease.''.
            (2) Subpoenas.--Section 115(d)(2)(A) of the Federal Oil and 
        Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1724(d)(2)(A)) is 
        amended by striking ``(with notice to the lessee who designated 
        the designee, which notice shall not constitute a subpoena to 
        the lessee)''.
    (l) Required Recordkeeping for Natural Gas Plants.--
            (1) Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall publish final 
        regulations with respect to required recordkeeping, under the 
        authority provided in section 103 of the Federal Oil and Gas 
        Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1713), as amended by 
        this Act.
            (2) Section 103(a) of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty 
        Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1713(a)) is amended to read:
    ``(a) A lessee, operator, or other person directly involved in 
developing, producing, treating, transporting, processing, purchasing, 
or selling oil or gas subject to this chapter through the point of 
first arm's-length sale, the point of royalty determination, or the 
point that processing is complete, whichever is later, shall establish 
and maintain any records, make any reports, and provide any information 
that the Secretary may, by rule, reasonably require for the purposes of 
implementing this chapter or determining compliance with rules or 
orders under this chapter. Upon the request of any officer or employee 
duly designated by the Secretary or any State or Indian Tribe 
conducting an audit or investigation pursuant to this chapter, the 
appropriate records, reports, or information which may be required by 
this section shall be made available for inspection and duplication by 
such officer or employee, State, or Indian Tribe.''.
    (m) Entitlements.--
            (1) Directed rulemaking.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior 
        shall publish final regulations prescribing when a Federal 
        lessee or designee must report and pay royalties on oil and gas 
        production for each month based on--
                    (A) the volume of oil and gas produced from a lease 
                or allocated to the lease in accordance with the terms 
                of a unit or communitization agreement; or
                    (B) the actual volume of oil and gas sold by or on 
                behalf of the lessee.
            (2) 100 percent entitlement reporting and paying.--The 
        Secretary shall give consideration to requiring all reporting 
        and paying based on the volume of oil and gas produced from a 
        lease or allocated to the lease in accordance with the terms of 
        a unit or communitization agreement without regard to the 
        actual volume of oil and gas sold by or on behalf of a lessee.
            (3) Volume allocation of oil and gas production.--Section 
        111(i) of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 
        1982 (30 U.S.C. 1721(i)) is amended to read:
    ``(i) Volume Allocation of Oil and Gas Production.--Except as 
otherwise provided by this subsection--
            ``(A) a lessee or its designee of a lease in any unit or 
        communitization agreement shall report and pay royalties on oil 
        and gas production for each production month based on the 
        volume of oil and gas produced from such agreement and 
        allocated to the lease in accordance with the terms of the 
        agreement; and
            ``(B) a lessee or its designee of a lease that is not 
        contained in a unit or communitization agreement shall report 
        and pay royalties on oil and gas production for each production 
        month based on the volume of oil and gas produced from the 
        lease unless the Secretary promulgates a final rule to allow or 
        require that the lessee report and pay royalties on oil and gas 
        production for each production month based on the actual volume 
        of production sold by or on behalf of that lessee.''.

SEC. 70807. HARDROCK MINING.

    (a) Abandoned Mine Land Cleanup.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Bureau of Land Management for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated $2,500,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for all activities necessary to inventory, assess, decommission, 
reclaim, respond to hazardous substance releases on, and remediate 
abandoned locatable minerals mine land.
    (b) Royalty.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2) and 
        subject to paragraph (3), production of all locatable minerals 
        from any mining claim located under the general mining laws and 
        maintained in compliance with this Act, or mineral concentrates 
        or products derived from locatable minerals from any such 
        mining claim, as the case may be, shall be subject to a royalty 
        of 8 percent of the gross income from mining. The claim holder 
        or any operator to whom the claim holder has assigned the 
        obligation to make royalty payments under the claim and any 
        person who controls such claim holder or operator shall be 
        liable for payment of such royalties.
            (2) Royalty for federal lands subject to approved plan of 
        operations.--The royalty under paragraph (2) shall be 4 percent 
        in the case of any Federal land that is subject to an approved 
        plan of operations on the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (3) Federal land added to existing plans of operations.--
        Any Federal land added through a plan modification to a mining 
        plan of operations that is submitted after the date of 
        enactment of this Act shall be subject to the royalty that 
        applies to Federal land under paragraph (1).
            (4) Limitation on application.--
                    (A) In general.--Any royalty under this subsection 
                shall not apply to small miners. In this subparagraph, 
                the term ``small miner'' means a person (including all 
                related parties thereto) that certifies to the 
                Secretary in writing that the person had annual gross 
                income in the preceding calendar year from mineral 
                production in an amount less than $100,000.
                    (B) Related parties defined.--For the purposes of 
                this paragraph, the term ``related parties'' means, 
                with respect to a person--
                            (i) the spouse and all dependents (as 
                        defined in section 152 of the Internal Revenue 
                        Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 152)) of the person; or
                            (ii) another person who is affiliated with 
                        the person, including--
                                    (I) another person who controls, is 
                                controlled by, or is under common 
                                control with the person; and
                                    (II) a subsidiary or parent company 
                                or corporation of the person.
                    (C) Control defined.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, the term ``control'' includes actual 
                control, legal control, and the power to exercise 
                control, through or by common directors, officers, 
                stockholders, a voting trust, or a holding company or 
                investment company, or any other means.
            (5) Duties of claim holders, operators, and transporters.--
                    (A) Regulation.--The Secretary shall prescribe by 
                rule the time and manner in which--
                            (i) a person who is required to make a 
                        royalty payment under this section shall make 
                        such payment; and
                            (ii) shall notify the Secretary of any 
                        assignment that such person may have made of 
                        the obligation to make any royalty or other 
                        payment under a mining claim under this 
                        section.
                    (B) Written instrument.--Any person paying 
                royalties under this section shall file a written 
                instrument, together with the first royalty payment, 
                affirming that such person is responsible for making 
                proper payments for all amounts due for all time 
                periods for which such person has a payment 
                responsibility.
                    (C) Additional amounts.--Such responsibility for 
                the periods referred to in subparagraph (B) shall 
                include any and all additional amounts billed by the 
                Secretary and determined to be due by final agency or 
                judicial action.
                    (D) Joint and several liability.--Any person liable 
                for royalty payments under this section who assigns any 
                payment obligation shall remain jointly and severally 
                liable for all royalty payments due for the period.
                    (E) Obligations.--A person conducting mineral 
                activities shall--
                            (i) develop and comply with the site 
                        security provisions in the mining plan of 
                        operations designed to protect from theft the 
                        hardrock minerals, concentrates, or products 
                        derived therefrom that are produced or stored 
                        on the area subject to a mining claim or lease, 
                        and such provisions shall conform with such 
                        minimum standards as the Secretary may 
                        prescribe by rule, taking into account the 
                        variety of circumstances on areas subject to 
                        mining claims and leases; and
                            (ii) not later than the 5th business day 
                        after production begins anywhere on an area 
                        subject to a mining claim, or production 
                        resumes after more than 90 days after 
                        production was suspended, notify the Secretary, 
                        in the manner prescribed by the Secretary, of 
                        the date on which such production has begun or 
                        resumed.
                    (F) Required documentation.--The Secretary may by 
                rule require any person engaged in transporting a 
                hardrock mineral, concentrate, or product derived 
                therefrom to carry on his or her person, in his or her 
                vehicle, or in his or her immediate control, 
                documentation showing, at a minimum, the amount, 
                origin, and intended destination of the hardrock 
                mineral, concentrate, or product derived therefrom in 
                such circumstances as the Secretary determines is 
                appropriate.
            (6) Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--A claim holder, operator, or other 
                person directly involved in developing, producing, 
                processing, transporting, purchasing, or selling 
                hardrock minerals, concentrates, or products derived 
                therefrom, subject to this section, shall establish and 
                maintain any records, make any reports, and provide any 
                information that the Secretary may reasonably require 
                for the purposes of implementing this section or 
                determining compliance with rules or orders under this 
                section. Such records shall include periodic reports, 
                records, documents, and other data. Such reports may 
                also include pertinent technical and financial data 
                relating to the quantity, quality, composition volume, 
                weight, and assay of all minerals extracted from the 
                mining claim or lease.
                    (B) Forfeiture.--Failure by a claim holder or 
                operator to cooperate with such an audit, provide data 
                required by the Secretary, or grant access to 
                information may, at the discretion of the Secretary, be 
                declared void.
                    (C) Maintenance of records.--Records required by 
                the Secretary under this section shall be maintained 
                for 7 years after release of financial assurance unless 
                the Secretary notifies the operator that the Secretary 
                has initiated an audit or investigation involving such 
                records and that such records must be maintained for a 
                longer period. In any case when an audit or 
                investigation is underway, records shall be maintained 
                until the Secretary releases the operator of the 
                obligation to maintain such records.
            (7) Audits.--The Secretary is authorized to conduct such 
        audits of all operators, transporters, purchasers, processors, 
        or other persons directly or indirectly involved in the 
        production or sale of minerals covered by this section, as the 
        Secretary deems necessary for the purposes of ensuring 
        compliance with the requirements of this section. For purposes 
        of performing such audits, the Secretary shall, at reasonable 
        times and upon request, have access to, and may copy, all 
        books, papers and other documents that relate to compliance 
        with any provision of this section by any person.
            (8) Interest and substantial underreporting assessments.--
                    (A) Payments not received.--In the case of 
                production where royalty payments are not received by 
                the Secretary on the date that such payments are due, 
                the Secretary shall charge interest on such 
                underpayments at the same interest rate as the rate 
                applicable under section 6621(a)(2) of the Internal 
                Revenue Code of 1986. In the case of an underpayment, 
                interest shall be computed and charged only on the 
                amount of the deficiency and not on the total amount.
                    (B) Underreporting.--If there is any underreporting 
                of royalty owed on production for any production month 
                by any person liable for royalty payments under this 
                section, the Secretary shall assess a penalty of not 
                greater than 25 percent of the amount of that 
                underreporting.
                    (C) Self-reporting.--The Secretary may waive or 
                reduce the assessment provided in subparagraph (B) if 
                the person liable for royalty payments under this 
                section corrects the underreporting before the date 
                such person receives notice from the Secretary that an 
                underreporting may have occurred, or before 90 days 
                after the date of the enactment of this section, 
                whichever is later.
                    (D) Waiver.--The Secretary shall waive any portion 
                of an assessment under subparagraph (B) attributable to 
                that portion of the underreporting for which the person 
                responsible for paying the royalty demonstrates that--
                            (i) such person had written authorization 
                        from the Secretary to report royalty on the 
                        value of the production on basis on which it 
                        was reported;
                            (ii) such person had substantial authority 
                        for reporting royalty on the value of the 
                        production on the basis on which it was 
                        reported;
                            (iii) such person previously had notified 
                        the Secretary, in such manner as the Secretary 
                        may by rule prescribe, of relevant reasons or 
                        facts affecting the royalty treatment of 
                        specific production which led to the 
                        underreporting; or
                            (iv) such person meets any other exception 
                        which the Secretary may, by rule, establish.
                    (E) Definition.--For the purposes of this 
                subsection, the term ``underreporting'' means the 
                difference between the royalty on the value of the 
                production that should have been reported and the 
                royalty on the value of the production which was 
                reported, if the value that should have been reported 
                is greater than the value that was reported.
            (9) Expanded royalty obligations.--Each person liable for 
        royalty payments under this section shall be jointly and 
        severally liable for royalty on all hardrock minerals, 
        concentrates, or products derived therefrom lost or wasted from 
        a mining claim when such loss or waste is due to negligence on 
        the part of any person or due to the failure to comply with any 
        rule, regulation, or order issued under this section.
            (10) Gross income from mining defined.--For the purposes of 
        this section, for any hardrock mineral, the term ``gross income 
        from mining'' has the same meaning as the term ``gross income'' 
        in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 C.F.R. 61).
            (11) Effective date.--Royalties under this section shall 
        take effect with respect to the production of hardrock minerals 
        after the enactment of this Act, but any royalty payments 
        attributable to production during the first 12 calendar months 
        after the enactment of this Act shall be payable at the 
        expiration of such 12-month period.
            (12) Failure to comply with royalty requirements.--Any 
        person who fails to comply with the requirements of this 
        section or any regulation or order issued to implement this 
        section shall be liable for a civil penalty under section 109 
        of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act (30 U.S.C. 
        1719) to the same extent as if the claim maintained in 
        compliance with this title were a lease under such Act.
    (c) Reclamation Fee.--
            (1) Imposition of fee.--Except as provided in paragraph 
        (7), each operator conducting hardrock mineral activities shall 
        pay to the Secretary of the Interior a reclamation fee of 7 
        cents per ton of displaced material.
            (2) Payment deadline.--Such reclamation fee shall be paid 
        not later than 60 days after the end of each calendar year 
        beginning with the first calendar year occurring after the date 
        of enactment of this Act.
            (3) Submission of statement.--All operators conducting 
        hardrock mineral activities shall submit to the Secretary a 
        statement of the amount of displaced material produced during 
        mineral activities during the previous calendar year, the 
        accuracy of which shall be sworn to by the operator and 
        notarized.
            (4) Penalty.--Any corporate officer, agent, or director of 
        a person conducting hardrock mineral activities, and any other 
        person acting on behalf of such a person, who knowingly makes 
        any false statement, representation, or certification, or 
        knowingly fails to make any statement, representation, or 
        certification, required under this section with respect to such 
        operation shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not 
        more than $10,000.
            (5) Civil action to recover fee.--Any portion of such 
        reclamation fee not properly or promptly paid pursuant to this 
        section shall be recoverable, with statutory interest, from the 
        hardrock mineral activities operator, in any court of competent 
        jurisdiction in any action at law to compel payment of debts.
            (6) Effect.--Nothing in this section requires a reduction 
        in, or otherwise affects, any similar fee required under any 
        law (including regulations) of any State.
            (7) Exemption.--The fee under this section shall not apply 
        for small miners.
            (8) Definitions.--
                    (A) The term ``displaced material'' means any 
                unprocessed ore and waste dislodged from its location 
                at the time hardrock mineral activities begin at a 
                surface, underground, or in-situ mine.
                    (B) The term ``hardrock mineral''--
                            (i) means any mineral that was subject to 
                        location under the general mining laws as of 
                        the date of enactment of this Act, and that is 
                        not subject to disposition under--
                                    (I) the Mineral Leasing Act (30 
                                U.S.C. 181 et seq.);
                                    (II) the Geothermal Steam Act of 
                                1970 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.);
                                    (III) the Act of July 31, 1947, 
                                commonly known as the Materials Act of 
                                1947 (30 U.S.C. 601 et seq.); or
                                    (IV) the Mineral Leasing for 
                                Acquired Lands Act (30 U.S.C. 351 et 
                                seq.); and
                            (ii) does not include any mineral that is 
                        subject to a restriction against alienation 
                        imposed by the United States and is--
                                    (I) held in trust by the United 
                                States for any Indian or Indian Tribe, 
                                as defined in section 2 of the Indian 
                                Miner Development Act of 1982 (25 
                                U.S.C. 2101); or
                                    (II) owned by any Indian or Indian 
                                Tribe, as defined in that section.
                    (C) The term ``mineral activities'' means any 
                activity on a mining claim, mill site, or tunnel site, 
                or a mining plan of operations, for, related to, or 
                incidental to, mineral exploration, mining, 
                beneficiation, processing, or reclamation activities 
                for any hardrock mineral.
                    (D) The term ``operator'' means any person 
                authorized at the date of enactment of this Act or 
                proposing after the date of enactment of this Act to 
                conduct mineral activities under the Mining Law of 1872 
                (30 U.S.C. 22)and any agent of such person.
                    (E) The term ``small miner'' means a person 
                (including all related parties thereto) that certifies 
                to the Secretary in writing that the person had annual 
                gross income in the preceding calendar year from 
                mineral production in an amount less than $100,000.
                    (F) The term ``displaced material'' means any crude 
                ore and waste dislodged from its location at the time 
                hardrock mineral activities begin at a surface, 
                underground, or in-situ mine.
    (d) Claim Maintenance Fee.--
            (1) Hardrock mining claim maintenance fee.--
                    (A) Required fees.--
                            (i) For each unpatented mining claim, mill, 
                        or tunnel site on federally owned lands, 
                        whether located before, on, or after the date 
                        of enactment of this Act, each claimant shall 
                        pay to the Secretary, on or before September 1 
                        of each year, a claim maintenance fee of $200 
                        per claim to hold such unpatented mining claim, 
                        mill or tunnel site for the assessment year 
                        beginning at noon on the next day, September 1.
                            (ii) For each unpatented placer mining 
                        claim on federally owned lands, whether located 
                        before, on, or after the date of enactment of 
                        this Act, each claimant shall pay to the 
                        Secretary, on or before September 1 of each 
                        year, a claim maintenance fee of $200 for each 
                        20 acres of the placer claim or portion 
                        thereof.
                            (iii) Such claim maintenance fee described 
                        in this section shall be in lieu of the 
                        assessment work requirement contained in the 
                        Mining Law of 1872 (30 U.S.C. 28 et seq.) and 
                        the related filing requirements contained in 
                        section 314 (a) and (c) of the Federal Land 
                        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
                        1744 (a) and (c)).
                            (iv) The claim maintenance fee in this 
                        section shall be paid for the year in which the 
                        location is made, at the time the location 
                        notice is recorded with the Bureau of Land 
                        Management.
                    (B) Fee adjustments.--
                            (i) The Secretary shall provide claimants 
                        notice of any adjustment made under this 
                        subsection not later than July 1 of any year in 
                        which the adjustment is made.
                            (ii) A fee adjustment under this subsection 
                        shall begin to apply the first assessment year 
                        which begins after adjustment is made.
                    (C) Exception for small miners.--The claim 
                maintenance fee required under this section may be 
                waived for a claimant who certifies in writing to the 
                Secretary that on the date the payment was due, the 
                claimant and all related parties--
                            (i) held not more than 10 mining claims, 
                        mill sites, or tunnel sites, or any combination 
                        thereof, on public lands; and
                            (ii) have performed assessment work 
                        required under the Mining Law of 1872 (30 
                        U.S.C. 28-28e) to maintain the mining claims 
                        held by the claimant and such related parties 
                        for the assessment year ending on noon of 
                        September 1 of the calendar year in which 
                        payment of the claim maintenance fee was due.
            (2) Co-ownership.--The co-ownership provisions of the 
        Mining Law of 1872 (30 U.S.C. 28 et seq.) shall remain in 
        effect except that the annual claim maintenance fee, where 
        applicable, shall replace applicable assessment requirements 
        and expenditures.
            (3) Failure to pay.--Failure to timely pay the claim 
        maintenance fee as required by the Secretary shall conclusively 
        constitute a forfeiture of the unpatented mining claim, mill or 
        tunnel site by the claimant and the claim shall be deemed null 
        and void by operation of law.
    (e) Funding to Prevent Environmental Damage From Mining.--In 
addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the 
Bureau of Land Management for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $3,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be expended after 
September 30, 2031, to revise rules and regulations to prevent undue 
degradation of public lands due to hardrock mining activities as 
authorized by the Federal Land Policy and Management Act (43 U.S.C. 
1701) and the Mining Law of 1872 (30 U.S.C. 22).
