---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Subtitle B - Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands

SEC. 70201. OAK FLAT WITHDRAWAL.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Disposal.--The term ``disposal'' means that the lands 
        identified are not available under the proceedings outlined 
        under section 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
        of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1713).
            (2) Entry.--The term ``entry'' has the meaning as it is 
        used under section 103(j) of the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702(j)), in its application 
        to lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
            (3) Location.--The term ``location'' has the meaning as it 
        is used under section 2320 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 
        23), in its application to lands under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary;
            (4) Oak flat withdrawal area.--the term ``Oak Flat'' means 
        the approximately 2,422 acres of Forest System land in the 
        Tonto National Forest in southeastern Arizona commonly known as 
        ``Oak Flat'' and generally depicted as ``Oak Flat Withdrawal 
        Area'' on the map titled ``Oak Flat Withdrawal'' and dated June 
        15, 2021.
            (5) Patent.--The term ``patent'' has the meaning as it is 
        used under section 2325 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29), 
        in its application to lands under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
    (b) Repeal.--Section 3003 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (16 
U.S.C. 539p) is repealed.
    (c) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid rights in existence on the date 
of the enactment of this section, Oak Flat is withdrawn from all forms 
of disposal, location, entry, and patent.

SEC. 70202. CIVILIAN CLIMATE CORPS.

    (a) National Park Service Civilian Climate Corps.--
            (1) Definitions.--With regard to this subsection:
                    (A) Conservation project.--The term ``conservation 
                project'' means a project for the conservation, 
                restoration, construction, or rehabilitation of 
                natural, cultural, historic, archaeological, 
                recreational, or scenic resources.
                    (B) Corps program.--The term ``corps program'' 
                means a program established by a Federal, State, 
                Tribal, or local government, or nonprofit organization 
                that performs conservation projects on Public Lands.
                    (C) Public lands.--The term ``Public Lands'' means 
                lands administered by the National Park Service.
            (2) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the National Park Service 
        for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, $1,700,000,000, to remain available 
        until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be 
        expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out education 
        and job training projects and conservation projects on Public 
        Lands, including through the use of direct expenditure, 
        contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements with corps 
        programs.
            (3) Administrative expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
        subsection, no more than 2 percent shall be used for 
        administrative costs to carry out this section.
    (b) Bureau of Land Management Civilian Climate Corps.--
            (1) Definitions.--With regard to this subsection:
                    (A) Conservation project.--The term ``conservation 
                project'' means a project for the conservation, 
                restoration, construction, or rehabilitation of 
                natural, cultural, historic, archaeological, 
                recreational, or scenic resources.
                    (B) Corps program.--The term ``corps program'' 
                means a program established by a Federal, State, 
                Tribal, or local government, or nonprofit organization 
                that performs conservation projects on Public Lands.
                    (C) Public lands.--The term ``Public Lands'' means 
                lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (2) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Bureau of Land 
        Management for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
        Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $900,000,000, to remain 
        available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may 
        be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out 
        education and job training projects and conservation projects 
        on Public Lands, including through the use of direct 
        expenditure, contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements with 
        corps programs.
            (3) Administrative expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
        subsection, no more than 2 percent shall be used for 
        administrative costs to carry out this section.
    (c) United States Fish and Wildlife Service Civilian Climate 
Corps.--
            (1) Definitions.--With regard to this subsection:
                    (A) Conservation project.--The term ``conservation 
                project'' means a project for the conservation, 
                restoration, construction, or rehabilitation of 
                natural, cultural, historic, archaeological, 
                recreational, or scenic resources.
                    (B) Corps program.--The term ``corps program'' 
                means a program established by a Federal, State, 
                Tribal, or local government, or nonprofit organization 
                that performs conservation projects on Public Lands.
                    (C) Public lands.--The term ``Public Lands'' means 
                lands administered by the United States Fish and 
                Wildlife Service.
            (2) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the United States Fish and 
        Wildlife Service for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
        Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $400,000,000, to remain 
        available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may 
        be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out 
        education and job training projects and conservation projects 
        on Public Lands, including through the use of direct 
        expenditure, contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements with 
        corps programs.
            (3) Administrative expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
        subsection, no more than 2 percent shall be used for 
        administrative costs to carry out this section.
    (d) Tribal Civilian Climate Corps.--
            (1) Definitions.--With regard to this subsection:
                    (A) Conservation project.--The term ``conservation 
                project'' means any project for the conservation, 
                restoration, construction, or rehabilitation of 
                natural, cultural, historic, archaeological, 
                recreational, or scenic resources.
                    (B) Corps program.--The term ``corps program'' 
                means a program established by a Federal, State, 
                Tribal, or local government, or nonprofit organization 
                that performs appropriate conservation projects on 
                Public Lands.
                    (C) Indian land.--The term ``Indian land'' means 
                land of an Indian Tribe or an Indian individual that 
                is--
                            (I) held in trust by the United States; or
                            (ii) subject to a restriction against 
                        alienation imposed by the United States.
                    (D) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has 
                the meaning given the term in section 101 of the 
                Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act (25 U.S.C. 
                5130).
                    (E) Native hawaiian.--The term ``Native Hawaiian'' 
                means any individual who is--
                            (I) a citizen of the United States; and
                            (ii) a descendant of the aboriginal people 
                        who, before 1778, occupied and exercised 
                        sovereignty in the area that now comprises the 
                        State of Hawaii, as evidenced by--
                                    (I) genealogical records;
                                    (II) Kupuna (elders) or Kamaaina 
                                (long-term community residents) 
                                verification; or
                                    (III) certified birth records.
                    (F) Native hawaiian organization.--The term 
                ``Native Hawaiian organization'' means a private 
                nonprofit organization that--
                            (I) serves the interests of Native 
                        Hawaiians;
                            (ii) has Native Hawaiians in substantive 
                        and policymaking positions within the 
                        organization; and
                            (iii) is recognized by the Governor of 
                        Hawaii for the purposes of planning, 
                        conducting, or administering programs (or 
                        portions of programs) for the benefit of Native 
                        Hawaiians.
            (2) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Bureau of Indian 
        Affairs for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
        not otherwise appropriated, $500,000,000, to remain available 
        until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be 
        expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out education 
        and job training projects and conservation projects, including 
        through the use of direct expenditure, contracts, grants, and 
        cooperative agreements with corps programs, and including 
        projects on Indian lands, pursuant to an agreement between an 
        Indian Tribe or Native Hawaiian organization and a corps 
        program for the benefit of an Indian Tribe or Native Hawaiians. 
        None of the funds provided by this subsection shall be subject 
        to cost-share requirements.
            (3) Administrative expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
        subsection, no more than 2 percent shall be used for 
        administrative costs to carry out this section.

SEC. 70203. PRESIDIO TRUST.

    (a) Presidio Trust Defined.--With regard to this section, the term 
``Presidio Trust'' means the entity established under section 103(a) of 
title I of division I of Public Law 104-333 and under the requirements 
placed upon that entity by section 104(a) of title I of division I of 
Public Law 104-333.
    (b) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Presidio Trust for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $200,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2026, for carrying out projects 
identified by the Presidio Trust in accordance with the purposes 
identified under the first section of Public Law 92-589 (16 U.S.C. 
460bb).

SEC. 70204. GRAND CANYON.

    (a) Definition.--In this section:
            (1) Disposal.--The term ``disposal'' means that the lands 
        identified are not available under the proceedings outlined 
        under section 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
        of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1713).
            (2) Entry.--The term ``entry'' has the meaning as it is 
        used under section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702(j)), in its application 
        to lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
            (3) Grand canyon protection area.--The term ``Grand Canyon 
        Protection Area'' means the approximately 1,054,923 acres of 
        land depicted as ``Federal Mineral Estate to be Withdrawn'' on 
        the map entitled ``Grand Canyon Protection Area'' and dated 
        August 23, 2021.
            (4) Location.--The term ``location'' has the meaning as it 
        is used under section 2320 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 
        23), in its application to lands under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary.
            (5) Patent.--The term ``patent'' has the meaning as it is 
        used under section 2325 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29), 
        in its application to lands under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (b) Withdrawal.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Bureau of Land Management for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$1,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to carry out, 
subject to valid rights in existence on the date of enactment of this 
section, the withdrawal of the Grand Canyon Protection Area from all 
forms of disposal, location, entry, and patent.

SEC. 70205. WILDFIRE.

    (a) Protecting Communities and Ecosystems From Wildfire.--In 
addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the 
Bureau of Land Management for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $900,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be expended after 
September 30, 2031, to reduce wildfire risk on landscapes and 
communities through fire preparedness, fire science and research 
(including improved fireshed mapping and management), emergency 
rehabilitation, rural fire assistance, noncommercial fuels management 
activities in the wildland-urban interface, the renovation or 
construction of fire facilities, and for expenses necessary to support 
firefighter workforce reforms. None of the funds provided by this 
subsection shall be used for salvage logging.
    (b) Tribal Wildfire Prevention.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Bureau of Indian Affairs for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
For carrying out the National Indian Forest Resources Management Act 
(25 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.) for renewable and manageable resources, 
communications, economic and cultural benefits, improved fireshed 
mapping and management, and to protect Tribal forest lands from 
wildfire.
    (c) Forest Technology Improvements.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Office of Wildland 
Fire Management for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be expended after 
September 30, 2031, for carrying out a research, development, and 
testing pilot program to--
            (1) assess new technologies, including unmanned aircraft 
        system, geospatial, or remote sensing technologies, across all 
        reforestation activities;
            (2) accelerate the deployment and integration of such 
        technologies into the operations of the Secretary of the 
        Interior; and
            (3) collaborate and cooperate with State, Tribal, and 
        private geospatial information system organizations with 
        respect to such technologies.

SEC. 70206. URBAN PARKS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the National Park Service for fiscal year 2022, out of any amounts 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, to carry out direct, competitive 
grants to localities to create or significantly enhance access to parks 
or outdoor recreation facilities in urban areas, in accordance with the 
authorities outlined under section 200305(e)(2)(A) or 200305(e)(3) of 
title 54, United States Code, and subject to limitations outlined under 
section 200305(f)(3) of such title, of which no more than 2 percent 
shall be used for administrative costs to carry out this section.

SEC. 70207. EVERY KID OUTDOORS.

    (a) Definitions.--With respect to this section:
            (1) Federal land and waters.--The term ``Federal land and 
        waters'' means any Federal land or body of water under the 
        jurisdiction of the Director to which the public has access.
            (2) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the National Park Service.
            (3) Student or students.--The term ``student'' or 
        ``students'' means any fourth, fifth, or sixth grader or home-
        schooled learner 10 years of age residing in the United States.
    (b) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the National Park Service for fiscal year 2022, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts 
may be expended after September 30, 2031, for the carrying out of the 
issuance and administration of passes, effective during the period 
beginning on September 1 and ending on August 31 of the following year, 
at the request of a student, which allows access, when the student to 
which the pass was issued is present, to Federal lands and waters for 
which access is subject to an entrance, standard amenity, or day use 
fee, free of charge for the student and three accompanying adults, and 
for carrying out the purposes outlined under section 9001(b)(3)(D) of 
Public Law 116-9.

SEC. 70208. NATIONAL PARK SERVICE CLIMATE RESILIENCE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the National Park Service for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $115,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be 
expended after September 30, 2031, for the protection, restoration, and 
resiliency of public lands and resources in accordance with the 
purposes outlined in section 100101(a) of title 54, United States Code. 
None of the funds provided by this section shall be subject to cost-
sharing requirements.

SEC. 70209. BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT CLIMATE RESILIENCE.

     In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Bureau of Land Management for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $110,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be 
expended after September 30, 2031, for the protection, restoration, and 
resiliency of public lands and resources in accordance with the 
purposes outlined in section 102(a)(8) of the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701(a)(8). None of the funds 
provided by this section shall be subject to cost-sharing requirements.

SEC. 70210. HISTORIC PRESERVATION.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Director of the National Park Service for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$75,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, to carry out 
preservation or historic preservation as defined by section 300315 of 
title 54, United States Code.
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70211. THOMPSON DIVIDE.

    (a) Thompson Divide Withdrawal.--
            (1) Thompson divide withdrawal and protection area 
        defined.--For the purposes of this subsection, the term 
        ``Thompson Divide Withdrawal and Protection area'' means the 
        Federal land and minerals generally depicted as the ``Thompson 
        Divide Withdrawal and Protection Area'' on the map entitled 
        ``Greater Thompson Divide Area Map'' and dated June 13, 2019.
            (2) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid rights in existence on 
        the date of the enactment of this section, the Thompson Divide 
        Withdrawal and Protection Area is withdrawn from--
                    (A) entry, appropriation, and disposal under the 
                public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral 
                materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
    (b) Thompson Divide Lease Payments.--
            (1) Thompson divide withdrawal and protection area 
        defined.--With regard to this subsection, the term ``Thompson 
        Divide Withdrawal and Protection Area'' means the Federal land 
        and minerals generally depicted as the ``Thompson Divide 
        Withdrawal and Protection Area'' on the map entitled ``Greater 
        Thompson Divide Area Map'' and dated June 13, 2019.
            (2) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Bureau of Land 
        Management for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
        Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $500,000 to remain 
        available until September 30, 2026, to acquire, from willing 
        sellers, the rights to oil or gas leases within the Thompson 
        Divide Withdrawal and Protection Area, provided such leases are 
        in effect on the date of enactment of this subsection. All 
        rights acquired under this subsection shall be permanently 
        cancelled and unavailable for reissue.
            (3) Administrative expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
        subsection, no more than 2 percent shall be used for 
        administrative costs to carry out this subsection.
    (c) Fugitive Coal Mine Methane Use Pilot Program.--
            (1) Pilot program area defined.--For the purposes of this 
        subsection, the term ``pilot program area'' means the areas 
        identified as ``Coal Mine Methane Capture Areas'' on the map 
        entitled ``Greater Thompson Divide Fugitive Coal Mine Methane 
        Use Pilot Program Area'' and dated June 17, 2019.
            (2) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Bureau of Land 
        Management for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
        Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000 to remain 
        available until September 30, 2026, for carrying out a pilot 
        program in the pilot program area to inventory and, subject to 
        valid existing rights, to lease, capture, mitigate or sequester 
        methane emissions that would leak or be vented into the 
        atmosphere from an active, inactive, or abandoned underground 
        coal mine.

SEC. 70212. CHACO CANYON.

    (a) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) Chaco cultural heritage withdrawal area.--The term 
        ``Chaco Cultural Heritage Withdrawal Area'' means the Federal 
        land generally depicted as the ``Chaco Cultural Heritage 
        Withdrawal Area'' on the map entitled ``Chaco Cultural Heritage 
        Withdrawal Area'' and dated April 2, 2019.
            (2) Non-producing leases.--The term ``non-producing 
        leases'' means any oil and gas lease on Federal land within the 
        Chaco Cultural Heritage Withdrawal Area--
                    (A) on which drilling operations have not been 
                commenced before the end of the primary term of the 
                applicable lease;
                    (B) that is not producing oil and gas in paying 
                quantities; and,
                    (C) that is not subject to a valid cooperative or 
                unit plan of development.
    (b) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid rights in existence on the date 
of enactment of this section, the Chaco Cultural Heritage Withdrawal 
Area is withdrawn from--
            (1) entry and disposal under the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.
    (c) Non-producing Leases.--A non-producing lease shall terminate 
pursuant to section 17(e) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(e)) 
and subpart 3108 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, and may not 
be extended.
