---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Subtitle F - United States Fish and Wildlife Service

SEC. 70601. ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT RECOVERY PLANS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $75,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for the development and implementation of recovery plans under section 
4(f) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533(f)).
    (b) Candidate Conservation.--In addition to the amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $75,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be expended after 
September 30, 2031, for developing Candidate Conservation Agreements 
and Candidate Conservation Agreements with Assurances for candidate and 
other at-risk species pursuant section 10 of the Endangered Species Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1539).

SEC. 70602. ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT HABITAT CONSERVATION.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$50,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for United States 
Fish and Wildlife Service responsibilities in the development, review, 
and permitting of Habitat Conservation Plans under section 10(a)(2) of 
the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1539(a)(2)) and for State 
programs under section 6(d) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
U.S.C. 1535(d)).

SEC. 70603. ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT INTERAGENCY CONSULTATIONS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$40,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out 
consultations with Federal agencies that undertake agency actions 
affecting endangered species and threatened species under section 7 of 
the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1536).

SEC. 70604. FUNDING FOR ISLAND PLANT CONSERVATION.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for the conservation of endangered species and threatened species of 
plants in the Hawaiian Islands and the Pacific Island Territories of 
the United States as authorized by section 4 of the Endangered Species 
Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533).
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70605. FUNDING FOR POLLINATOR CONSERVATION.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for the conservation of endangered species and threatened species of 
pollinators in the United States as authorized by section 4 of the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533).
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70606. FUNDING FOR MUSSEL CONSERVATION.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for the conservation of endangered species and threatened species of 
freshwater mussels in the United States as authorized by section 4 of 
the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533).
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70607. FUNDING FOR DESERT FISH CONSERVATION.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for the conservation of endangered species and threatened species of 
desert fish in the Southwestern United States as authorized by section 
4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533).
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70608. FUNDING FOR THE UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE TO 
              ADDRESS CLIMATE-INDUCED WEATHER EVENTS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for the purposes of carrying out the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 (16 
U.S.C. 742a) and the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 
661), through direct expenditure, contracts, grants, and cooperative 
agreements, for the purposes of rebuilding and restoring units of the 
National Wildlife Refuge System, other Federal public assets, and State 
wildlife management areas including by addressing the threat of 
invasive species, increasing the resiliency and capacity of habitats 
and infrastructure to withstand weather events, or reducing the amount 
of damage caused by those events. None of the funds provided by this 
section shall be subject to cost-share requirements.
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70609. FUNDING FOR THE UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE FOR 
              WILDLIFE CORRIDOR CONSERVATION.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$10,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2026, to carry out the 
provisions of the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C. 742a) and 
the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 661) through direct 
expenditure,, contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements, for 
mapping wildlife corridors and providing assistance to States and 
Indian Tribes as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination 
and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304) for the conservation and 
restoration of wildlife corridors.

SEC. 70610. FUNDING FOR THE UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE FOR 
              GRASSLAND RESTORATION.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2026, to carry out the 
provisions of the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C. 742a) and 
the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 661) through direct 
expenditure, contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements, for the 
protection and restoration of grassland habitats.

                      Subtitle G--Insular Affairs

SEC. 70701. INSULAR AFFAIRS HOSPITAL AND OTHER CRITICAL HEALTH 
              INFRASTRUCTURE FUNDING.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of the Interior Office of Insular Affairs for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$993,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for hospitals and 
other critical health infrastructure in the territories. Amounts made 
available under this section shall be divided among the territories in 
accordance with needs identified by assessments completed by the 
Department of the Interior, Office of Insular Affairs, of health care 
facilities in each territory, but not less than 35 percent shall be 
provided to Guam, not less than 35 percent shall be provided to the 
United States Virgin Islands, not less than 20 percent shall be 
provided to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and not 
less than 10 percent shall be provided to American Samoa.

SEC. 70702. OFFICE OF INSULAR AFFAIRS CLIMATE CHANGE TECHNICAL 
              ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Department of the Interior Office of Insular 
Affairs for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $25,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, to provide technical assistance for climate-change 
planning, mitigation, adaptation, and resilience to United States-
affiliated Insular Areas under the Office of Insular Affairs.
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, not more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70703. SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS AGAINST THE UNITED STATES FOR CERTAIN 
              RESIDENTS OF THE ISLAND OF VIEQUES, PUERTO RICO.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Department of the Interior Office of Insular 
Affairs, for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $300,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be made available after 
September 30, 2031, to compensate through the appointment of a Special 
Master, the municipality of Vieques, and an individual claimant who is 
or was a resident, the child of a resident, or an immediate heir (as 
determined by the laws of Puerto Rico) of a deceased claimant who was a 
resident on the island of Vieques, Puerto Rico, in the period or after 
the United States Government used the island of Vieques, Puerto Rico, 
for military readiness.
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, not more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70704. DEFINITIONS.

    For the purposes of this subtitle:
            (1) Freely associated states.--The term ``Freely Associated 
        States'' means the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the 
        Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau.
            (2) United states-affiliated insular areas.--The term 
        ``United States-affiliated Insular Areas'' means the 
        territories and Freely Associated States.
            (3) Territories.--The term ``territories'' means American 
        Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, 
        Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States.
            (4) Territory.--The term ``territory'' means American 
        Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, 
        Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands of the United States.
