---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Subtitle A - Bureau of Indian Affairs and Indian Health Service

SEC. 70101. TRIBAL CONSULTATION.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of the Interior for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $30,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may 
be expended after September 30, 2031, for the purposes of conducting 
consultation with Tribal Governments.

SEC. 70102. BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS.

    (a) BIA Road Maintenance.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Bureau of Indian Affairs for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $300,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for carrying out the Act of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13; commonly 
known as the ``Snyder Act'') for Bureau of Indian Affairs road 
maintenance and to address the deferred maintenance backlog, of which 
no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs to carry 
out this subsection.
    (b) BIA Public Safety.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Bureau of Indian Affairs for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$200,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out 
the Act of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13; commonly known as the 
``Snyder Act'') for Bureau of Indian Affairs Public Safety and Justice, 
of which no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this subsection.
    (c) BIA Climate Resilience.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Bureau of Indian Affairs for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $1,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for carrying out the Act of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13; commonly 
known as the ``Snyder Act'') for Tribal climate resilience and 
adaptation programs, of which no more than 2 percent shall be used for 
administrative costs to carry out this subsection.
    (d) Tribal Housing.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Bureau of Indian Affairs for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$500,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out 
the Act of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13; commonly known as the 
``Snyder Act'') to improve Tribal housing, of which no more than 2 
percent shall be used for administrative costs to carry out this 
subsection.
    (e) Tribal Energy.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Bureau of Indian Affairs for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$35,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out 
the Act of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13; commonly known as the 
``Snyder Act'') for Tribal energy programs, of which no more than 2 
percent shall be used for administrative costs to carry out this 
subsection.
    (f) Small and Needy Program.--Funds made available under this 
section shall be excluded from the calculation of funds received by 
those Tribal Governments that participate in the ``Small and Needy'' 
program.
    (g) One-Time Basis Funds.--Funds made available under this section 
to Tribes and Tribal organizations under the Indian Self-Determination 
and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5301) shall be available on a 
one-time basis. Such nonrecurring funds shall not be part of the amount 
required by section 106 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5325), and such funds shall only be used for 
the purposes identified in this section.

SEC. 70103. INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE.

    (a) IHS Information Technology.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Indian Health Service for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $140,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for carrying out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 Stat. 674), the Indian 
Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the Public Health Service 
Act, with respect to the Indian Health Service, for Indian Health 
Service electronic records (25 U.S.C. 1660h), telehealth, system 
modernization, and information technology infrastructure.
    (b) Urban Indian Health.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Indian Health Service for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $42,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for carrying out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 Stat. 674), the Indian 
Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the Public Health Service 
Act, with respect to the Indian Health Service, for the Urban Indian 
Health program for renovations, construction, expansion of facilities, 
including leased facilities, which shall be in addition to other 
amounts made available for Urban Indian organizations (as defined in 
section 4 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act 25 U.S.C. 1603)) 
under this subsection.
    (c) IHS Facilities Maintenance.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Indian Health Service for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $610,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for carrying out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 Stat. 674), the Indian 
Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the Public Health Service 
Act, with respect to the Indian Health Service, for maintenance and 
improvement of Indian Health Service and Tribal facilities.
    (d) Green Infrastructure.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Indian Health Service for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $10,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for carrying out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 Stat. 674), the Indian 
Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the Public Health Service 
Act, with respect to the Indian Health Service, for sustainability 
features for existing facilities.
    (e) Inpatient and Community Health Facilities.--In addition to 
amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Indian Health 
Service for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $40,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be expended after 
September 30, 2031, for carrying out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 
Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, 
the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the 
Public Health Service Act, with respect to the Indian Health Service, 
for Inpatient and Community Health Facilities Design, Construction, in 
accordance with 25 U.S.C. 1665h.
    (f) Medical Equipment.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Indian Health Service for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$150,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out 
the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination 
and Education Assistance Act, the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, 
and titles II and III of the Public Health Service Act, with respect to 
the Indian Health Service, for maintaining, upgrading, and replacing 
medical equipment for IHS and Tribal facilities.
    (g) Small Ambulatory Construction.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Indian Health Service 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $60,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for carrying out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 Stat. 674), the Indian 
Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the Public Health Service 
Act, with respect to the Indian Health Service, for the small 
ambulatory construction program.
    (h) Personnel Quarters Construction.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Indian Health Service 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $278,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for carrying out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 Stat. 674), the Indian 
Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the Public Health Service 
Act, with respect to the Indian Health Service, for personnel quarters 
construction.
    (i) IHS Priority Health Care Facilities.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Indian Health Service 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $2,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for projects identified through the health care facility priority 
system established and maintained pursuant to section 301(c) of the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1631(c)).
    (j) Facilities Support.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Indian Health Service for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $170,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for environmental health and facilities support activities of the 
Indian Health Service.
    (k) Nonrecurring Funds.--Funds made available under this section to 
Tribes and Tribal organizations under the Indian Self-Determination and 
Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) shall be available on 
a one-time basis. Such nonrecurring funds shall not be part of the 
amount required by section 106 of the Indian Self-Determination and 
Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5325), and such funds shall only be 
used for the purposes identified in this section.
