---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Subtitle C - Drought Response and Preparedness

SEC. 70301. BUREAU OF RECLAMATION WATER SETTLEMENT FUNDING.

    Section 10501 of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 (43 
U.S.C. 407) is amended as follows:
            (1) In subsection (b), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Additional deposits.--In addition to amounts 
        otherwise available, there is appropriated--
                    ``(A) for fiscal year 2032 and each fiscal year 
                thereafter out of any money in the Treasury not 
                otherwise appropriated, $370,000,000, for deposit in 
                the Fund, to remain available until expended; and
                    ``(B) for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
                Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,000,000,000, 
                for deposit in the Fund, to remain available until 
                September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be 
                expended after September 30, 2031.''.
            (2) In subsection (c)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``for each of 
                fiscal years 2020 through 2034, the Secretary may 
                expend from the Fund an amount not to exceed 
                $120,000,000,'' and inserting ``for fiscal year 2022 
                and each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary may 
                expend from the Fund an amount not to exceed 
                $370,000,000'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``more than 
                $120,000,000, for any fiscal year if such amounts are 
                available in the Fund due to expenditures not reaching 
                $120,000,000'' and inserting ``more than $370,000,000 
                for any fiscal year if such amounts are available in 
                the Fund, for the fiscal year in which expenditures are 
                made pursuant to subparagraph (D) and paragraphs (2) 
                and (3)''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) The Secretary shall expend all amounts in the 
                Fund available from deposits made under subsection 
                (b)(1) and subsection (b)(3)(B) not later than the end 
                of fiscal year 2031.
                    ``(D) If, in the judgment of the Secretary on an 
                annual basis, the Secretary is unlikely to expend the 
                amounts as required under subparagraph (C) because 
                expenditures cannot be made for activities authorized 
                under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall expend from 
                the Fund on an annual basis any projected unspent 
                amounts by not later than the end of fiscal year 2031 
                on grants to disadvantaged communities (identified 
                according to criteria adopted by the Secretary) or on 
                grants to Indian Tribes (as defined in section 4 of the 
                Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
                (25 U.S.C. 5304)), in a manner as determined by the 
                Secretary, for up to 100 percent of the cost of the 
                planning, design, or construction of water projects the 
                primary purpose of which is to provide potable water 
                supplies to communities or households that do not have 
                reliable access to potable water in a State or 
                territory described in the first section of the Act of 
                June 17, 1902 (43 U.S.C. 391; 32 Stat. 388, chapter 
                1093).''.
            (3) In subsection (c), by amending paragraph (2) to read as 
        follows:
            ``(2) Authority.--
                    ``(A) Non-tribal settlement expenditures.--The 
                Secretary may expend money from the Fund to implement a 
                settlement agreement approved by Congress that 
                resolves, in whole or in part, litigation involving the 
                United States and a party that is not an Indian Tribe 
                (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-
                Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
                5304)), if the settlement agreement or implementing 
                legislation requires the Bureau of Reclamation to 
                provide financial assistance for, or plan, design, and 
                construct--
                            ``(i) water supply infrastructure; or
                            ``(ii) a project--
                                    ``(I) to rehabilitate a water 
                                delivery system to conserve water; or
                                    ``(II) to restore habitat or 
                                otherwise improve environmental 
                                conditions associated with or affected 
                                by, or located within the same river 
                                basin as, a Federal reclamation project 
                                that is in existence on March 30, 2009.
                    ``(B) Tribal expenditures.--The Secretary may 
                expend money from the Fund to implement a settlement 
                agreement approved by Congress that resolves, in whole 
                or in part, claims concerning Indian water resources, 
                if the settlement agreement or implementing legislation 
                authorizes the Secretary to provide financial 
                assistance for, or plan, design, and construct--
                            ``(i) water supply infrastructure; or
                            ``(ii) a project--
                                    ``(I) to rehabilitate a water 
                                delivery system to conserve water; or
                                    ``(II) to restore habitat or 
                                otherwise improve environmental 
                                conditions associated with or affected 
                                by, or located within the same river 
                                basin as, a Federal reclamation 
                                project.''.
            (5) In subsection (c)(3)(C), by striking ``for any 
        authorized use'' and inserting ``for any use authorized under 
        paragraph (2) or paragraph (1)(D)''.
            (6) By striking subsection (f).

SEC. 70302. EMERGENCY DROUGHT RELIEF.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Bureau of Reclamation for fiscal year 2022, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$1,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, except 
that no amounts shall be expended after September 30, 2026, for near-
term drought relief actions carried out under--
            (1) the Reclamation States Emergency Drought Relief Act of 
        1991 (Public Law 102-250);
            (2) the Klamath Basin Water Supply Enhancement Act of 2000 
        (Public Law 106-498);
            (3) section 201 of division D of Public Law 108-7; or
            (4) section 1109 of division FF of Public Law 116-260.
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent may be used for administrative costs to 
carry out this section.

SEC. 70303. EMERGENCY DROUGHT RELIEF FOR TRIBES.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Bureau of Reclamation for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $150,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, except that no amounts may be 
expended after September 30, 2026, for near-term drought relief actions 
to mitigate drought impacts for Indian Tribes (as defined in section 4 
of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
U.S.C. 5304)) that are impacted by the operation of a Bureau of 
Reclamation water project, including through direct financial 
assistance to address drinking water shortages and to mitigate for the 
loss of Tribal trust resources.

SEC. 70304. SALTON SEA PROJECTS.

    (a) Appropriation.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Bureau of Reclamation 
        for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, $250,000,000, to remain available until 
        September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be expended 
        after September 30, 2031, to provide grants and enter into 
        contracts and cooperative agreements to carry out projects 
        located in the area of the Salton Sea in Southern California to 
        improve air quality, habitat, and water quality, in partnership 
        with--
                    (A) State, Tribal, and local governments;
                    (B) water districts;
                    (C) joint powers authorities;
                    (D) nonprofit organizations; and
                    (E) institutions of higher education.
            (2) Cost share.--The non-Federal share of the cost of a 
        project under this subsection shall be 50 percent of the cost 
        of the project.
    (b) Included Activities.--The projects described in subsection (a) 
may include--
            (1) construction, operation, maintenance, permitting, and 
        design activities required for such projects; and
            (2) dust suppression projects.
    (c) Funding Eligibility.--To be eligible to receive funding, non-
Tribal grantees must demonstrate compliance with prevailing wage 
requirements.
    (d) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70305. WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTES.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the United States Geological Survey for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$75,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out 
section 104 of the Water Resources Research Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 
10303).
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70306. FEDERAL PRIORITY STREAMGAGES.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the United States Geological Survey for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$150,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that 
no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for making 
operational streamgages that are identified by the Secretary of the 
Interior as Federal priority streamgages.
    (b) Collaboration With Non-federal Partners.--The United States 
Geological Survey shall prioritize the expenditure of funds available 
under subsection (a) in a manner that seeks to leverage the use of non-
Federal funds made available through streamgage funding agreements with 
States and local agencies to improve environmental quality and water 
supply reliability.
    (c) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70307. SNOW WATER SUPPLY FORECASTING.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Bureau of Reclamation for fiscal year 2022, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts 
may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out section 1111 
of division FF of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 
116-260).
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70308. WATER TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENT.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Bureau of Reclamation for fiscal year 2022, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts 
may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out section 1112 
of division FF of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 
116-260).
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70309. AQUATIC ECOSYSTEM RESTORATION.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Bureau of Reclamation for fiscal year 2022, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $250,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts 
may be expended before fiscal year 2027 or after September 30, 2031, 
for carrying out section 1109 of division FF of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 116-260).
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the funds provided by this 
section, no more than 2 percent shall be used for administrative costs 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 70310. LARGE SCALE WATER REUSE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a State, Indian Tribe, municipality, irrigation 
                district, water district, wastewater district, or other 
                organization with water or power delivery authority;
                    (B) a State, regional, or local authority, the 
                members of which include 1 or more organizations with 
                water or power delivery authority; or
                    (C) an agency established under State law for the 
                joint exercise of powers or a combination of entities 
                described in subparagraphs (A) through (B).
            (2) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
            (3) Reclamation state.--The term ``Reclamation State'' 
        means a State or territory described in the first section of 
        the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388, chapter 1093; 43 U.S.C. 
        391).
    (b) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Bureau of Reclamation for fiscal year 2022, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts 
may be expended before fiscal year 2027 or after September 30, 2031, to 
provide nonreimbursable grants on a competitive basis to eligible 
entities that shall not exceed 25 percent of the total cost of an 
eligible project unless the project advances at least a proportionate 
share of nonreimbursable benefits authorized under the reclamation laws 
(including fish and wildlife benefits provided through measurable 
reductions in water diversions from imperiled ecosystems) up to a 
maximum 75 percent of the total costs of an eligible project, to carry 
out the planning, design, and construction of projects to reclaim and 
reuse municipal, industrial, domestic, or agricultural wastewater or 
impaired ground or surface waters that have a total estimated cost of 
more than $500,000,000 and that provide substantial water supply and 
other benefits to drought stricken regions within the Reclamation 
States for the purposes of--
            (1) helping to advance water management plans across a 
        multi-state area, such as drought contingency plans in the 
        Colorado River Basin;
            (2) providing multiple benefits, including water supply 
        reliability benefits for drought-stricken States, Tribes, and 
        communities, fish and wildlife benefits, and water quality 
        improvements; and
            (3) reducing impacts on environmental resources from water 
        projects owned or operated by Federal and State agencies, 
        including through measurable reductions in water diversions 
        from imperiled ecosystems.
    (c) Total Dollar Cap.--The Bureau of Reclamation shall not impose a 
total dollar cap on Federal contributions that applies to all 
individual projects funded under this section.
    (d) Funding Eligibility.--An eligible project shall not be 
considered ineligible for assistance under this section because the 
project has received assistance authorized under title XVI of Public 
Law 102-575 or section 4009 of Public Law 114-322.
    (e) Treatment of Conveyance.--The Bureau of Reclamation shall 
consider the planning, design, and construction of an eligible 
project's conveyance system to be eligible for grant funding under this 
section.

SEC. 70311. CONVEYANCE REPAIRS AND BUILD BACK BETTER FUNDS FOR SOLAR 
              CANAL INTEGRATION.

    (a) Conveyance Repairs.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Bureau of Reclamation for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
to provide nonreimbursable grants in a manner as determined by the 
Secretary of the Interior (in this section referred to as the 
``Secretary'') on a competitive basis to eligible entities that in 
aggregate shall not exceed 33 percent of the total cost of an eligible 
project to carry out the planning, design, and construction of projects 
to make major, non-recurring maintenance repairs to water conveyance 
facilities that do not enlarge the carrying capacity of a conveyance 
facility beyond the capacity as previously constructed for conveyance 
facilities in need of emergency capacity restoration due to subsidence 
and experiencing exceptional drought for the purposes of increasing 
drought resiliency, primarily through groundwater recharge.
    (b) Build Back Better Funds for Solar Canal Integration.--In 
addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the 
Bureau of Reclamation for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be expended after 
September 30, 2031, for the design, study, and implementation of 
projects (including pilot and demonstration projects) to cover 
conveyance facilities receiving grants under subparagraph (a) with 
solar panels to generate renewable energy in a manner as determined by 
the Secretary or for other solar projects associated with Bureau of 
Reclamation projects that increase water efficiency and assist in 
implementation of clean energy goals.

SEC. 70312. RIO GRANDE PUEBLOS IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE GRANTS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Bureau of Reclamation for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $200,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be 
expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out section 9106(d) of 
the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-11).
