---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# PART 3 - INNOVATION

## SEC. 31031. FUNDING FOR ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS FOR HEALTH.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $3,000,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, to establish the Advanced Research Projects 
Agency for Health (in this section referred to as the ``ARPA-H'') for 
purposes of making pivotal investments in breakthrough technologies and 
broadly applicable platforms, capabilities, resources, and solutions 
that have the potential to transform important areas of medicine and 
health for the benefit of all individuals and that cannot readily be 
accomplished through traditional biomedical research or commercial 
activity.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used to--
            (1) hire a Director to head the ARPA-H (for a term of no 
        more than 5 years subject to one renewal period); and
            (2) acting through the Director of the ARPA-H, in 
        consultation, as applicable, with the Director of the National 
        Institutes of Health, the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, the 
        Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, 
        the Director of the Biomedical Advanced Research and 
        Development Authority, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for 
        Minority Health, and the heads of other agencies, shall--
                    (A) ensure to the maximum extent practicable that 
                the projects and activities of the ARPA-H funded by 
                subsection (a) are coordinated with, and do not 
                duplicate the efforts of, programs within, or research 
                conducted or supported by, the Department of Health and 
                Human Services; and
                    (B) in using amounts made available by subsection 
                (a), expedite the development, application, and 
                implementation of health breakthroughs to prevent, 
                detect, and treat serious or life-threatening diseases, 
                including--
                            (i) providing awards in the form of grants, 
                        contracts, cooperative agreements, prizes, and 
                        other transactions (as defined under section 
                        402(n) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
                        U.S.C. 282(n))) to entities to carry out 
                        advanced research projects for health, 
                        including through multiyear contracts (subject 
                        to the availability of funds) and prize 
                        competitions;
                            (ii) developing funding criteria and 
                        evaluation criteria to assess projects funded 
                        under clause (i);
                            (iii) establishing metrics or criteria to 
                        prioritize investments and research that should 
                        be funded under clause (i), including the 
                        novelty, scientific, and technical merit of 
                        proposed projects, the future commercial 
                        applications of projects, and the unmet need 
                        within patient populations;
                            (iv) identifying and promoting potential 
                        advances in basic research that will assist in 
                        carrying out advanced health research and 
                        development;
                            (v) identifying areas of research and 
                        innovation that are high-risk, high-reward or 
                        where the incentives of the commercial market 
                        are unlikely to result in adequate or timely 
                        development;
                            (vi) supporting collaboration and 
                        communication among other Federal agencies, 
                        including both health and scientific agencies, 
                        institutions of higher education, private or 
                        public research institutions, private entities, 
                        including biotechnology and pharmaceutical 
                        companies, and nonprofit organizations, 
                        including patient advocacy groups, including 
                        soliciting data, if applicable;
                            (vii) translating scientific discoveries 
                        into technological innovations, including 
                        through--
                                    (I) collaboration with the Food and 
                                Drug Administration on the development 
                                of medical products to facilitate 
                                transformation of breakthroughs in 
                                biomedicine into tangible solutions for 
                                patients; and
                                    (II) ensuring that medical product 
                                development programs gather nonclinical 
                                and clinical data necessary for 
                                approval as efficiently as practicable;
                            (viii) hiring and appointing personnel 
                        necessary to carry out activities described in 
                        this section, including--
                                    (I) making and rescinding 
                                appointments of scientific, medical, 
                                and professional personnel;
                                    (II) designating personnel to serve 
                                as program managers (for terms of no 
                                more than 3 years subject to one 
                                renewal period) to establish research 
                                and development goals for the ARPA-H, 
                                provide project oversight and 
                                management of strategic initiatives, 
                                recommend restructure, expansion, or 
                                termination of research projects under 
                                this section, as necessary and 
                                appropriate, and carry out other 
                                activities described in this 
                                subsection;
                                    (III) recruiting and retaining a 
                                diverse workforce, including 
                                individuals underrepresented in science 
                                and medicine and, racial and ethnic 
                                minorities; and
                                    (IV) hiring and appointing 
                                administrative, financial, and 
                                information technology staff as 
                                necessary to carry out this subsection;
                            (ix) compensating personnel at a rate to be 
                        determined by the Director of the ARPA-H;
                            (x) acquiring (by purchase, lease, 
                        condemnation, or otherwise), constructing, 
                        improving, repairing, operating, and 
                        maintaining such real and personal property as 
                        are necessary to carry out this section; and
                            (xi) entering into or terminating 
                        contracts, including multiyear contracts, as 
                        appropriate to support advanced research 
                        projects for health.
    (c) Funding Awards.--Research funded by amounts made available 
under this section shall not be subject to the requirements of section 
406(a)(3)(A)(ii) or 492 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
284a(a)(3)(A)(ii), 289a).
    (d) Supplement Not Supplant.--Funds appropriated by this section 
shall be used to supplement and not supplant any appropriations for 
institutes and centers of the National Institutes of Health.

                       PART 4--MATERNAL MORTALITY

SEC. 31041. FUNDING FOR LOCAL ENTITIES ADDRESSING SOCIAL DETERMINANTS 
              OF MATERNAL HEALTH.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $175,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, to award grants to community-based 
organizations, Urban Indian organizations, Native Hawaiian 
organizations, or other nonprofit organizations working with a 
community-based organization, operating in areas with high rates of 
adverse maternal health outcomes or with significant racial or ethnic 
disparities in maternal health outcomes.
    (b) Use of Funding.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Addressing social determinants of maternal health for 
        pregnant and postpartum individuals and eliminating racial and 
        ethnic disparities in maternal health outcomes by--
                    (A) hiring, training, or retaining staff;
                    (B) developing or distributing culturally and 
                linguistically appropriate resources for social 
                services programs;
                    (C) offering programs and resources to address 
                social determinants of health;
                    (D) conducting demonstration projects to address 
                social determinants of health;
                    (E) establishing a culturally and linguistically 
                appropriate resource center that provides multiple 
                social services programs in a single location; and
                    (F) consulting with pregnant and postpartum 
                individuals to conduct an assessment of the activities 
                conducted under this section.
            (2) Promoting evidence-based health literacy and pregnancy, 
        childbirth, and parenting education for pregnant and postpartum 
        individuals, and individuals seeking to become pregnant.
            (3) Providing support from perinatal health workers, 
        support persons, and providers to pregnant and postpartum 
        individuals.
            (4) Providing culturally congruent, linguistically 
        appropriate, and trauma-informed training to perinatal health 
        workers.
            (5) Conducting outreach to eligible entities to encourage 
        such entities to apply for grants under this section.
            (6) Providing technical assistance to the eligible entities 
        receiving funding under this section.
    (c) Minimum for Community-Based Organizations.--Of the amounts made 
available by subsection (a), the Secretary shall award not less than 
$75,000,000 for the Office of Minority Health to award grants to 
community-based organizations to carry out the activities described in 
subsection (b).

SEC. 31042. FUNDING TO GROW AND DIVERSIFY THE NURSING WORKFORCE IN 
              MATERNAL AND PERINATAL HEALTH.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $150,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to accredited schools of nursing 
for the purpose of growing and diversifying the perinatal nursing 
workforce.
    (b) Uses of Funds.--
            (1) Grantees.--Prioritizing students and registered nurses 
        who practice in a health professional shortage area designated 
        under such section of the Public Health Service Act, amounts 
        made available to grantees by subsection (a) shall be used for 
        the following activities:
                    (A) Providing scholarships to students seeking to 
                become nurse practitioners whose education includes a 
                focus on maternal and perinatal health.
                    (B) Providing scholarships to students seeking to 
                become clinical nurse specialists whose education 
                includes a focus on maternal and perinatal health.
                    (C) Providing scholarships to students seeking to 
                become certified nurse midwives.
                    (D) Providing scholarships to registered nurses 
                seeking certification as an obstetrics and gynecology 
                registered nurse.
            (2) Secretary.--The Secretary shall use amounts made 
        available pursuant to subsection (a) for the following 
        activities:
                    (A) Developing and implementing strategies to 
                recruit and retain a diverse pool of students seeking 
                to enter careers focused on maternal and perinatal 
                health.
                    (B) Developing partnerships with practice settings 
                in a health professional shortage area designated under 
                section 332 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
                254e) for the clinical placements of students at the 
                schools receiving such grants.
                    (C) Developing curriculum for students seeking to 
                enter careers focused on maternal and perinatal health 
                that includes training programs on bias, racism, or 
                discrimination.
                    (D) Carrying out other activities under title VIII 
                of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 296 et 
                seq.) for the purpose under subsection (a).

SEC. 31043. FUNDING TO GROW AND DIVERSIFY THE DOULA WORKFORCE.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to health professions schools, 
academic health centers, State or local governments, territories, 
Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations, Urban Indian organizations, 
Native Hawaiian organizations, or other appropriate public or private 
nonprofit entities (or consortia of entities, including entities 
promoting multidisciplinary approaches), to establish or expand 
programs to grow and diversify the doula workforce.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Establishing programs that provide education and 
        training to individuals seeking appropriate training or 
        certification as doulas.
            (2) Expanding the capacity of existing programs described 
        in paragraph (1), for the purpose of increasing the number of 
        students enrolled in such programs, including by awarding 
        scholarships for students.
            (3) Developing and implementing strategies to recruit and 
        retain students from underserved communities, particularly from 
        demographic groups experiencing high rates of maternal 
        mortality and severe maternal morbidity, including racial and 
        ethnic minority groups, into programs described in paragraphs 
        (1) and (2).

SEC. 31044. FUNDING TO GROW AND DIVERSIFY THE MATERNAL MENTAL HEALTH 
              AND SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER TREATMENT WORKFORCE.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $75,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to health professions schools, 
academic health centers, State or local governments, territories, 
Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations, Urban Indian organizations, 
Native Hawaiian organizations, or other appropriate public or private 
nonprofit entities (or consortia of entities, including entities 
promoting multidisciplinary approaches), to establish or expand 
programs to grow and diversify the maternal mental health and substance 
use disorder treatment workforce.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Establishing programs that provide education and 
        training to individuals seeking appropriate licensing or 
        certification as mental health or substance use disorder 
        treatment providers who plan to specialize in maternal mental 
        health conditions or substance use disorders.
            (2) Expanding the capacity of existing programs described 
        in paragraph (1), for the purposes of increasing the number of 
        students enrolled in such programs, including by awarding 
        scholarships for students.
            (3) Developing and implementing strategies to recruit and 
        retain students from underserved communities into programs 
        described in paragraphs (1) and (2).

SEC. 31045. FUNDING FOR MATERNAL MENTAL HEALTH EQUITY GRANT PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to community-based organizations, 
Urban Indian organizations, Native Hawaiian organizations, health care 
providers, accredited medical schools, accredited schools of nursing, 
teaching hospitals, accredited midwifery programs, physician assistant 
education programs, residency or fellowship programs, or other 
nonprofit organizations, schools, or programs determined appropriate by 
the Secretary, to address maternal mental health conditions and 
substance use disorders with respect to pregnant, lactating, and 
postpartum individuals in areas with high rates of adverse maternal 
health outcomes or with significant racial or ethnic disparities in 
maternal health outcomes.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available pursuant to subsection 
(a), prioritizing community-based organizations, shall be for the 
following activities:
            (1) Establishing or expanding maternity care programs to 
        improve the integration of mental health and substance use 
        disorder treatment services into primary care settings where 
        pregnant individuals regularly receive health care services.
            (2) Establishing or expanding group prenatal care programs 
        or postpartum care programs.
            (3) Expanding existing programs that improve maternal 
        mental health and substance use disorder treatment from the 
        preconception through the postpartum periods, with a focus on 
        individuals from racial and ethnic minority groups with high 
        rates of maternal mortality and morbidity.
            (4) Providing services and support for individuals with 
        maternal mental health conditions and substance use disorders, 
        starting in pregnancy and continuing through the postpartum 
        period.
            (5) Addressing stigma associated with maternal mental 
        health conditions and substance use disorders, with a focus on 
        racial and ethnic minority groups.
            (6) Raising awareness of warning signs of maternal mental 
        health conditions and substance use disorders, with a focus on 
        pregnant, lactating, and postpartum individuals from racial and 
        ethnic minority groups.
            (7) Establishing or expanding programs to prevent suicide 
        or self-harm among pregnant, lactating, and postpartum 
        individuals.
            (8) Offering evidence-informed programs at freestanding 
        birth centers that provide maternal mental health and substance 
        use disorder education, treatments, and services, and other 
        services for individuals throughout the prenatal and postpartum 
        period.
            (9) Establishing or expanding programs to provide education 
        and training to maternity care providers with respect to--
                    (A) identifying potential warning signs for 
                maternal mental health conditions or substance use 
                disorders in pregnant, lactating, and postpartum 
                individuals, with a focus on individuals from racial 
                and ethnic minority groups; and
                    (B) in the case where such providers identify such 
                warning signs, offering referrals to mental health 
                substance use disorder treatment professionals.
            (10) Developing a national website, or other source, that 
        includes information on health care providers who treat 
        maternal mental health conditions and substance use disorders.
            (11) Establishing or expanding programs in communities to 
        improve coordination between maternity care providers and 
        mental health and substance use disorder providers who treat 
        maternal mental health conditions and substance use disorders.
            (12) Carrying other programs aligned with evidence-based or 
        evidence-informed practices for addressing maternal mental 
        health conditions and substance use disorders for pregnant and 
        postpartum individuals from racial and ethnic minority groups.

SEC. 31046. FUNDING FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING AT HEALTH PROFESSIONS 
              SCHOOLS TO IDENTIFY AND ADDRESS HEALTH RISKS ASSOCIATED 
              WITH CLIMATE CHANGE.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $85,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to accredited medical schools, 
accredited schools of nursing, teaching hospitals, accredited midwifery 
programs, physician assistant education programs, residency or 
fellowship programs, or other schools or programs determined 
appropriate by the Secretary, to support the development and 
integration of education and training programs for identifying and 
addressing health risks associated with climate change for pregnant, 
lactating, and postpartum individuals.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for developing, integrating, and implementing curriculum and 
continuing education that focuses on the following:
            (1) Identifying health risks associated with climate change 
        for pregnant, lactating, and postpartum individuals and 
        individuals with the intent to become pregnant.
            (2) How health risks associated with climate change affect 
        pregnant, lactating, and postpartum individuals and individuals 
        with the intent to become pregnant.
            (3) Racial and ethnic disparities in exposure to, and the 
        effects of, health risks associated with climate change for 
        pregnant, lactating, and postpartum individuals and individuals 
        with the intent to become pregnant.
            (4) Patient counseling and mitigation strategies relating 
        to health risks associated with climate change for pregnant, 
        lactating, and postpartum individuals.
            (5) Relevant services and support for pregnant, lactating, 
        and postpartum individuals relating to health risks associated 
        with climate change and strategies for ensuring such 
        individuals have access to such services and support.
            (6) Implicit and explicit bias, racism, and discrimination 
        in providing care to pregnant, lactating, and postpartum 
        individuals and individuals with the intent to become pregnant.

SEC. 31047. FUNDING FOR MINORITY-SERVING INSTITUTIONS TO STUDY MATERNAL 
              MORTALITY, SEVERE MATERNAL MORBIDITY, AND ADVERSE 
              MATERNAL HEALTH OUTCOMES.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, to remain 
available until expended for minority-serving institutions described in 
section 371 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067q).
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Developing and implementing systematic processes of 
        listening to the stories of pregnant and postpartum individuals 
        from racial and ethnic minority groups, and perinatal health 
        workers supporting such individuals, to fully understand the 
        causes of, and inform potential solutions to, the maternal 
        mortality and severe maternal morbidity crisis within their 
        respective communities.
            (2) Assessing the potential causes of relatively low rates 
        of maternal mortality among Hispanic individuals and foreign-
        born Black women.
            (3) Assessing differences in rates of adverse maternal 
        health outcomes among subgroups identifying as Hispanic.
            (4) Conducting outreach to eligible minority-serving 
        institutions to raise awareness of the availability of the 
        grants.
            (5) Providing technical assistance on the application 
        process for such grant.
            (6) Promoting capacity building to eligible entities.

SEC. 31048. FUNDING FOR IDENTIFICATION OF MATERNITY CARE HEALTH 
              PROFESSIONAL TARGET AREAS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $25,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for carrying out section 332(k) of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 254e(k)).

SEC. 31049. FUNDING FOR MATERNAL MORTALITY REVIEW COMMITTEES TO PROMOTE 
              REPRESENTATIVE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for carrying out section 317K(d) of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 247b-12(d)) to promote community engagement in maternal 
mortality review committees to increase the diversity of a committee's 
membership with respect to race and ethnicity, location, and 
professional background.

SEC. 31050. FUNDING FOR THE SURVEILLANCE FOR EMERGING THREATS TO 
              MOTHERS AND BABIES.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for carrying out section 317K of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b-12) with respect to conducting 
surveillance for emerging threats to mothers and babies.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Expanding the Surveillance for Emerging Threats to 
        Mothers and Babies activities of the Centers for Disease 
        Control and Prevention.
            (2) Working with public health, clinical, and community-
        based organizations to provide timely, continually updated, 
        evidence-based guidance to families and health care providers 
        on ways to reduce risk to pregnant and postpartum individuals 
        and their newborns and tailor interventions to improve their 
        long-term health.
            (3) Partnering with more State, Tribal, territorial, and 
        local public health programs in the collection and analysis of 
        clinical data on the impact of COVID-19 on pregnant and 
        postpartum patients and their newborns, particularly among 
        patients from racial and ethnic minority groups.
            (4) Establishing regionally based centers of excellence to 
        offer medical, public health, and other knowledge (in 
        coordination with State and Tribal public health authorities) 
        to ensure that communities, especially communities with large 
        populations of individuals from racial and ethnic minority 
        groups, can help pregnant and postpartum individuals and 
        newborns get the care and support they need.

SEC. 31051. FUNDING FOR ENHANCING REVIEWS AND SURVEILLANCE TO ELIMINATE 
              MATERNAL MORTALITY PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $30,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for carrying out the Enhancing Reviews and 
Surveillance to Eliminate Maternal Mortality program established under 
section 317K of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b-12).
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Expanding the Enhancing Reviews and Surveillance to 
        Eliminate Maternal Mortality program (commonly known as the 
        ``ERASE MM program'') of the Centers for Disease Control and 
        Prevention.
            (2) Expanding partnerships with States, territories, Indian 
        Tribes, and Tribal organizations to support Maternal Mortality 
        Review Committees.
            (3) Providing technical assistance to existing maternal 
        mortality review committees.

SEC. 31052. FUNDING FOR THE PREGNANCY RISK ASSESSMENT MONITORING 
              SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $15,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for carrying out section 317K of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b-12) with respect to the Pregnancy 
Risk Assessment Monitoring System.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Supporting COVID-19 supplements to the Pregnancy Risk 
        Assessment Monitoring System questionnaire.
            (2) Conducting a rapid assessment of COVID-19 awareness, 
        impact on care and experiences, and use of preventive measures 
        among pregnant, laboring and birthing, and postpartum 
        individuals.
            (3) Supporting the transition of the questionnaire 
        described in paragraph (1) to an electronic platform and 
        expanding the distribution of the questionnaire to a larger 
        population, with a special focus on reaching underrepresented 
        communities.

SEC. 31053. FUNDING FOR THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CHILD HEALTH AND 
              HUMAN DEVELOPMENT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $15,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for carrying out section 301 of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 241) and title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 281 et seq.) with respect to child health and human development, 
to conduct or support research for interventions to mitigate the 
effects of the COVID-19 public health emergency on pregnant, lactating, 
and postpartum individuals, with a particular focus on individuals from 
racial and ethnic minority groups.

SEC. 31054. FUNDING FOR EXPANDING THE USE OF TECHNOLOGY-ENABLED 
              COLLABORATIVE LEARNING AND CAPACITY MODELS FOR PREGNANT 
              AND POSTPARTUM INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $30,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to community-based organizations, 
health care providers, accredited medical schools, accredited schools 
of nursing, teaching hospitals, accredited midwifery programs, 
physician assistant education programs, residency or fellowship 
programs, or other schools or programs determined appropriate by the 
Secretary, that are operating in health professional shortage areas 
designated under section 332 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 254e) with high rates of adverse maternal health outcomes or 
significant racial and ethnic disparities in maternal health outcomes, 
to evaluate, develop, and expand the use of technology-enabled 
collaborative learning.
    (b) Use of Funds.--
            (1) Grantees.--A recipient of a grant awarded pursuant to 
        subsection (a) shall use such grant amounts to--
                    (A) train maternal health care providers and 
                students through the use and expansion of technology-
                enabled collaborative learning and capacity building 
                models, including hardware and software that--
                            (i) enables distance learning and technical 
                        support; and
                            (ii) supports the secure exchange of 
                        electronic health information; and
                    (B) conduct evaluations on the use of technology-
                enabled collaborative learning to improve maternal 
                health outcomes.
            (2) Secretary.--The Secretary shall use amounts made 
        available pursuant to subsection (a) to provide technical 
        assistance to recipients of grants awarded pursuant to 
        subsection (a) on the development, use, and sustainability of 
        technology-enabled collaborative learning and capacity building 
        models to expand access to maternal health services provided by 
        such entities.

SEC. 31055. FUNDING FOR PROMOTING EQUITY IN MATERNAL HEALTH OUTCOMES 
              THROUGH DIGITAL TOOLS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $30,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to community-based organizations, 
health care providers, accredited medical schools, accredited schools 
of nursing, teaching hospitals, accredited midwifery programs, 
physician assistant education programs, residency or fellowship 
programs, or other schools or programs determined appropriate by the 
Secretary, that are operating in health professional shortage areas 
designated under section 332 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 254e) with high rates of adverse maternal health outcomes or 
significant racial and ethnic disparities in maternal health outcomes 
to reduce racial and ethnic disparities in maternal health outcomes by 
increasing access to digital tools related to maternal health care.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall be used for the following activities:
            (1) Increasing access to digital tools that could improve 
        maternal health outcomes, such as wearable technologies, 
        patient portals, telehealth services, and mobile phone 
        applications.
            (2) Providing technical assistance to recipients of grants 
        awarded pursuant to subsection (a) on the development, use, 
        evaluation, and postgrant sustainability of digital tools for 
        purposes of promoting equity in maternal health outcomes.

SEC. 31056. FUNDING FOR ANTIDISCRIMINATION AND BIAS TRAINING.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $25,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for the purpose described in subsection (b).
    (b) Use of Funds.--The Secretary shall use amounts appropriated 
under subsection (a) to award competitive grants or contracts to 
national nonprofit organizations focused on improving health equity, 
accredited schools of medicine or nursing, and other health 
professional training programs to develop, disseminate, review, 
research, and evaluate training for health professionals and all staff 
who interact with patients to reduce discrimination and bias in the 
provision of health care, with a focus on maternal health care.

                PART 5--OTHER PUBLIC HEALTH INVESTMENTS

SEC. 31061. FUNDING FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER 
              PROFESSIONALS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for purposes of carrying out section 597 of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290ll).

SEC. 31062. FUNDING FOR PROJECT AWARE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $30,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for carrying out section 520A of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-32) with respect to advancing wellness and 
resiliency in education.

SEC. 31063. FUNDING FOR THE NATIONAL SUICIDE PREVENTION LIFELINE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $75,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for advancing infrastructure for the National Suicide 
Prevention Lifeline program under section 520E-3 of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-36c) in order to expand existing 
capabilities for response in a manner that avoids duplicating existing 
capabilities for text-based crisis support.

SEC. 31064. FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY VIOLENCE AND TRAUMA INTERVENTIONS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated to remain available until expended, for the 
purposes described in subsection (b):
            (1) $150,000,000 for fiscal year 2022.
            (2) $250,000,000 for fiscal year 2023.
            (3) $450,000,000 for fiscal year 2024.
            (4) $550,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025, 2026, and 
        2027.
    (b) Use of Funding.--The Secretary, acting through the Director of 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and in consultation 
with the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, the 
Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, and 
the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Minority Health and with public 
health and medical professionals, victim services community-based 
organizations, and other violence reduction experts, shall use amounts 
appropriated by subsection (a) to support public health approaches to 
reduce community violence and trauma, taking into consideration the 
needs of communities with high rates of, and prevalence of risk factors 
associated with, violence-related injuries and deaths, by--
            (1) awarding competitive grants or contracts to local 
        governmental entities, States, territories, Indian Tribes and 
        Tribal organizations, Urban Indian organizations, hospitals and 
        community health centers, nonprofit community-based 
        organizations, culturally specific organizations, victim 
        services providers, or other entities as determined by the 
        Secretary (or consortia of such entities) to support evidence-
        based, culturally competent, and developmentally appropriate 
        strategies to reduce community violence, including outreach and 
        conflict mediation, hospital-based violence intervention, 
        violence interruption, and services for victims and individuals 
        and communities at risk for experiencing violence, such as 
        trauma-informed mental health care and counseling, school-based 
        mental health services, and other services; and
            (2) supporting training, technical assistance, surveillance 
        systems, and data collection to facilitate support for 
        strategies to reduce community violence and ensure safe and 
        healthy communities.
    (c) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts appropriated under this 
section shall be used to supplement and not supplant any Federal, 
State, or local funding otherwise made available for the purposes 
described in this section.

SEC. 31065. FUNDING FOR THE NATIONAL CHILD TRAUMATIC STRESS NETWORK.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $10,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for carrying out section 582 of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 290hh-1) with respect to addressing the problem of high-risk 
or medically underserved persons who experience violence-related 
stress.

SEC. 31066. FUNDING FOR HIV HEALTH CARE SERVICES PROGRAMS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $150,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for modifications to existing contracts, and supplements to 
existing grants and cooperative agreements under parts A, B, C, and D 
of title XXVI of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300ff-11 et 
seq.) and section 2692(a) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 300ff-111(a)).

SEC. 31067. SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING FOR THE WORLD TRADE CENTER HEALTH 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Supplemental Fund.--
            (1) In general.--Title XXXIII of the Public Health Service 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
        the following:

``SEC. 3352. SUPPLEMENTAL FUND.

    ``(a) In General.--There is established a fund to be known as the 
World Trade Center Health Program Supplemental Fund (referred to in 
this section as the `Supplemental Fund'), consisting of amounts 
deposited into the Supplemental Fund under subsection (b).
    ``(b) Amount.--Out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, 
$2,860,000,000, for deposit into the Supplemental Fund, which amounts 
shall remain available through fiscal year 2031.
    ``(c) Uses of Funds.--Amounts deposited into the Supplemental Fund 
under subsection (b) shall be available, without further appropriation 
and without regard to any spending limitation under section 3351(c), to 
the WTC Program Administrator as needed at the discretion of such 
Administrator for carrying out any provision in this title, including 
sections 3303 and 3341(c).
    ``(d) Return of Funds.--Any amounts that remain in the Supplemental 
Fund on September 30, 2031, shall be deposited into the Treasury as 
miscellaneous receipts.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Title XXXIII of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) in section 3311(a)(4)(B)(i)(II) (42 U.S.C. 
                300mm-21(a)(4)(B)(i)(II)), by striking ``section 3351'' 
                and inserting ``sections 3351 and 3352'';
                    (B) in section 3321(a)(3)(B)(i)(II) (42 U.S.C. 
                300mm-31(a)(3)(B)(i)(II)), by striking ``section 3351'' 
                and inserting ``sections 3351 and 3352'';
                    (C) in section 3331 (42 U.S.C. 300mm-41)--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by inserting ``and 
                        the World Trade Center Health Program 
                        Supplemental Fund'' before the period at the 
                        end; and
                            (ii) in subsection (d)--
                                    (I) in paragraph (1)(B), by 
                                inserting ``(excluding any expenditures 
                                from amounts in the World Trade Center 
                                Health Program Supplemental Fund under 
                                section 3352)'' before the period at 
                                the end; and
                                    (II) in paragraph (2), in the flush 
                                text following subparagraph (C), by 
                                inserting ``(excluding any expenditures 
                                from amounts in the World Trade Center 
                                Health Program Supplemental Fund under 
                                section 3352)'' before the period at 
                                the end; and
                    (D) in section 3351(b) (42 U.S.C. 300mm-61(b))--
                            (i) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or as 
                        available from the World Trade Center Health 
                        Program Supplemental Fund under section 3352'' 
                        before the period at the end; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``or as 
                        available from the World Trade Center Health 
                        Program Supplemental Fund under section 3352'' 
                        before the period at the end.
    (b) Research Cohort for Emerging Health Impacts on Youth.--
            (1) In general.--Section 3341 of the Public Health Service 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm-51) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as 
                subsections (d) and (e), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (b) the 
                following:
    ``(c) Research Cohort for Emerging Health Impacts on Youth.--The 
WTC Program Administrator shall establish a research cohort of 
sufficient size to conduct research studies on the health and 
educational impacts of exposure to airborne toxins, or any other hazard 
or adverse condition, resulting from the September 11, 2001, terrorist 
attacks on the population of individuals who were 21 years of age or 
younger at the time of exposure and who are enrolled in the WTC Program 
or otherwise eligible for enrollment in the Program under section 
3321.''.
            (2) Spending limitation exemption.--Section 3351(c)(5) of 
        such Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm-61(c)(5)) is amended in the matter 
        preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting ``(other than 
        subsection (c) of such section)'' after ``section 3341''.
            (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 3301(f)(2)(E) of such 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm(f)(2)(E)) is amended by striking ``section 
        3341(a)'' and inserting ``subsection (a) or (c) of section 
        3341''.