---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# PART 5 - OTHER PUBLIC HEALTH INVESTMENTS

## SEC. 31061. FUNDING FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER PROFESSIONALS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for purposes of carrying out section 597 of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290ll).

## SEC. 31062. FUNDING FOR PROJECT AWARE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $30,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for carrying out section 520A of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-32) with respect to advancing wellness and 
resiliency in education.

## SEC. 31063. FUNDING FOR THE NATIONAL SUICIDE PREVENTION LIFELINE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $75,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for advancing infrastructure for the National Suicide 
Prevention Lifeline program under section 520E-3 of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-36c) in order to expand existing 
capabilities for response in a manner that avoids duplicating existing 
capabilities for text-based crisis support.

## SEC. 31064. FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY VIOLENCE AND TRAUMA INTERVENTIONS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated to remain available until expended, for the 
purposes described in subsection (b):
            (1) $150,000,000 for fiscal year 2022.
            (2) $250,000,000 for fiscal year 2023.
            (3) $450,000,000 for fiscal year 2024.
            (4) $550,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025, 2026, and 
        2027.
    (b) Use of Funding.--The Secretary, acting through the Director of 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and in consultation 
with the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, the 
Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, and 
the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Minority Health and with public 
health and medical professionals, victim services community-based 
organizations, and other violence reduction experts, shall use amounts 
appropriated by subsection (a) to support public health approaches to 
reduce community violence and trauma, taking into consideration the 
needs of communities with high rates of, and prevalence of risk factors 
associated with, violence-related injuries and deaths, by--
            (1) awarding competitive grants or contracts to local 
        governmental entities, States, territories, Indian Tribes and 
        Tribal organizations, Urban Indian organizations, hospitals and 
        community health centers, nonprofit community-based 
        organizations, culturally specific organizations, victim 
        services providers, or other entities as determined by the 
        Secretary (or consortia of such entities) to support evidence-
        based, culturally competent, and developmentally appropriate 
        strategies to reduce community violence, including outreach and 
        conflict mediation, hospital-based violence intervention, 
        violence interruption, and services for victims and individuals 
        and communities at risk for experiencing violence, such as 
        trauma-informed mental health care and counseling, school-based 
        mental health services, and other services; and
            (2) supporting training, technical assistance, surveillance 
        systems, and data collection to facilitate support for 
        strategies to reduce community violence and ensure safe and 
        healthy communities.
    (c) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts appropriated under this 
section shall be used to supplement and not supplant any Federal, 
State, or local funding otherwise made available for the purposes 
described in this section.

## SEC. 31065. FUNDING FOR THE NATIONAL CHILD TRAUMATIC STRESS NETWORK.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $10,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for carrying out section 582 of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 290hh-1) with respect to addressing the problem of high-risk 
or medically underserved persons who experience violence-related 
stress.

## SEC. 31066. FUNDING FOR HIV HEALTH CARE SERVICES PROGRAMS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $150,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for modifications to existing contracts, and supplements to 
existing grants and cooperative agreements under parts A, B, C, and D 
of title XXVI of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300ff-11 et 
seq.) and section 2692(a) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 300ff-111(a)).

## SEC. 31067. SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING FOR THE WORLD TRADE CENTER HEALTH 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Supplemental Fund.--
            (1) In general.--Title XXXIII of the Public Health Service 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
        the following:

``SEC. 3352. SUPPLEMENTAL FUND.

    ``(a) In General.--There is established a fund to be known as the 
World Trade Center Health Program Supplemental Fund (referred to in 
this section as the `Supplemental Fund'), consisting of amounts 
deposited into the Supplemental Fund under subsection (b).
    ``(b) Amount.--Out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, 
$2,860,000,000, for deposit into the Supplemental Fund, which amounts 
shall remain available through fiscal year 2031.
    ``(c) Uses of Funds.--Amounts deposited into the Supplemental Fund 
under subsection (b) shall be available, without further appropriation 
and without regard to any spending limitation under section 3351(c), to 
the WTC Program Administrator as needed at the discretion of such 
Administrator for carrying out any provision in this title, including 
sections 3303 and 3341(c).
    ``(d) Return of Funds.--Any amounts that remain in the Supplemental 
Fund on September 30, 2031, shall be deposited into the Treasury as 
miscellaneous receipts.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Title XXXIII of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) in section 3311(a)(4)(B)(i)(II) (42 U.S.C. 
                300mm-21(a)(4)(B)(i)(II)), by striking ``section 3351'' 
                and inserting ``sections 3351 and 3352'';
                    (B) in section 3321(a)(3)(B)(i)(II) (42 U.S.C. 
                300mm-31(a)(3)(B)(i)(II)), by striking ``section 3351'' 
                and inserting ``sections 3351 and 3352'';
                    (C) in section 3331 (42 U.S.C. 300mm-41)--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by inserting ``and 
                        the World Trade Center Health Program 
                        Supplemental Fund'' before the period at the 
                        end; and
                            (ii) in subsection (d)--
                                    (I) in paragraph (1)(B), by 
                                inserting ``(excluding any expenditures 
                                from amounts in the World Trade Center 
                                Health Program Supplemental Fund under 
                                section 3352)'' before the period at 
                                the end; and
                                    (II) in paragraph (2), in the flush 
                                text following subparagraph (C), by 
                                inserting ``(excluding any expenditures 
                                from amounts in the World Trade Center 
                                Health Program Supplemental Fund under 
                                section 3352)'' before the period at 
                                the end; and
                    (D) in section 3351(b) (42 U.S.C. 300mm-61(b))--
                            (i) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or as 
                        available from the World Trade Center Health 
                        Program Supplemental Fund under section 3352'' 
                        before the period at the end; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``or as 
                        available from the World Trade Center Health 
                        Program Supplemental Fund under section 3352'' 
                        before the period at the end.
    (b) Research Cohort for Emerging Health Impacts on Youth.--
            (1) In general.--Section 3341 of the Public Health Service 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm-51) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as 
                subsections (d) and (e), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (b) the 
                following:
    ``(c) Research Cohort for Emerging Health Impacts on Youth.--The 
WTC Program Administrator shall establish a research cohort of 
sufficient size to conduct research studies on the health and 
educational impacts of exposure to airborne toxins, or any other hazard 
or adverse condition, resulting from the September 11, 2001, terrorist 
attacks on the population of individuals who were 21 years of age or 
younger at the time of exposure and who are enrolled in the WTC Program 
or otherwise eligible for enrollment in the Program under section 
3321.''.
            (2) Spending limitation exemption.--Section 3351(c)(5) of 
        such Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm-61(c)(5)) is amended in the matter 
        preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting ``(other than 
        subsection (c) of such section)'' after ``section 3341''.
            (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 3301(f)(2)(E) of such 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm(f)(2)(E)) is amended by striking ``section 
        3341(a)'' and inserting ``subsection (a) or (c) of section 
        3341''.