---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# PART 2 - PANDEMIC PREPAREDNESS

## SEC. 31021. FUNDING FOR LABORATORY ACTIVITIES AT THE CENTERS FOR 
              DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000,000 for purposes 
of carrying out, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (in this section referred to as the 
``Director''), activities described in subsection (b), to remain 
available until expended.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Supporting renovation, expansion, and modernization of 
        State and local public health laboratory infrastructure (as the 
        term ``laboratory'' is defined in section 353 of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 263a)), including--
                    (A) increasing and enhancing testing and response 
                capacity;
                    (B) upgrades and expansion of the Laboratory 
                Response Network for rapid outbreak detection;
                    (C) improving and expanding genomic sequencing 
                capabilities to detect emerging diseases and variant 
                strains;
                    (D) expanding biosafety and biosecurity capacity; 
                and
                    (E) making other laboratory enhancements and 
                modernization as determined by the Director to be 
                important for maintaining public health.
            (2) Renovating, expanding, and modernizing laboratories of 
        the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as described in 
        subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (1).
            (3) Enhancing the ability of the Centers for Disease 
        Control and Prevention to monitor and exercise oversight over 
        biosafety and biosecurity of State and local public health 
        laboratories.

SEC. 31022. FUNDING FOR STRENGTHENING VACCINE CONFIDENCE.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,250,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, to carry out, acting through the Director of 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, directly or by making 
grants to public or private entities, activities described in 
subsection (b) in the United States, including its territories and 
possessions.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used to--
            (1) strengthen vaccine confidence;
            (2) strengthen routinely recommended vaccine programs; and
            (3) improve rates of vaccination, including through 
        activities described in section 313 of the Public Health 
        Service Act (42 U.S.C. 245).

SEC. 31023. FUNDING FOR SURVEILLANCE ACTIVITIES AT THE CENTERS FOR 
              DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, to carry out, acting through the Director of 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, directly or by making 
grants to public or private entities, activities described in 
subsection (b).
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used to--
            (1) enhance and strengthen early warning and detection 
        systems, including public health and health care surveillance, 
        wastewater testing, and global and domestic genomic 
        surveillance;
            (2) enhance and strengthen surveillance based in hospitals 
        and other health care providers or facilities, and outpatient 
        facility surveillance for severe acute respiratory infection, 
        influenza-like illness, acute febrile illness, and other 
        diseases as determined by the Director of the Centers for 
        Disease Control and Prevention to be in the interest of public 
        health; and
            (3) strengthen the antibiotic resistance initiative program 
        to improve research, stewardship, genomic detection 
        capabilities, and surveillance of existing and emerging 
        antimicrobial resistant pathogens.

SEC. 31024. FUNDING FOR DATA MODERNIZATION AT THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE 
              CONTROL AND PREVENTION.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $500,000,000, to remain 
available until expended--
            (1) to carry out, acting through the Director of the 
        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, directly or by 
        making grants to public or private entities, activities 
        described in subsection (b); and
            (2) to supplement other available funds to carry out 
        similar data modernization activities authorized by the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 201 et seq.).
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following:
            (1) Supporting public health data surveillance, 
        aggregation, and analytics infrastructure modernization 
        initiatives.
            (2) Enhancing reporting and workforce core competencies in 
        informatics and digital health.
            (3) Expanding and maintaining efforts to modernize the 
        United States disease warning system to forecast and track 
        hotspots and emerging biological threats.

SEC. 31025. FUNDING FOR PUBLIC HEALTH AND PREPAREDNESS RESEARCH, 
              DEVELOPMENT, AND COUNTERMEASURE CAPACITY.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until 
expended, to carry out activities, acting through the Assistant 
Secretary for Preparedness and Response, to prepare for, and respond 
to, public health emergencies declared under section 319 of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d)--
            (1) $3,000,000,000 to support surge capacity, including 
        through construction, expansion, or modernization of 
        facilities, to respond to a public health emergency, for 
        procurement and domestic manufacture of drugs, active 
        pharmaceutical ingredients, vaccines and other biological 
        products, diagnostic technologies and products, personal 
        protective equipment, medical devices, vials, syringes, 
        needles, and other components or supplies for the Strategic 
        National Stockpile under section 319F-2 of the Public Health 
        Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d-6b);
            (2) $2,000,000,000 to support expanded global and domestic 
        vaccine production capacity, including by developing or 
        acquiring new technology and expanding manufacturing capacity 
        through construction, expansion, or modernization of 
        facilities;
            (3) $2,000,000,000 to support activities to mitigate supply 
        chain risks and enhance supply chain elasticity and resilience 
        for critical drugs, active pharmaceutical ingredients, and 
        supplies (including essential medicines, medical 
        countermeasures, and supplies in shortage or at risk of 
        shortage), drug and vaccine raw materials, and other supplies, 
        as the Secretary determines appropriate, including 
        construction, expansion, or modernization of facilities, 
        adoption of advanced manufacturing processes, and other 
        activities to support domestic manufacturing of such supplies;
            (4) $500,000,000 to support activities conducted by the 
        Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority for 
        advanced research, standards development, and domestic 
        manufacturing capacity for drugs, including essential 
        medicines, diagnostics, vaccines, therapeutics, and personal 
        protective equipment; and
            (5) $500,000,000 to support increased biosafety and 
        biosecurity in research on infectious diseases, including by 
        modernization or improvement of facilities.
