---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# PART 4 - MATERNAL MORTALITY

## SEC. 31041. FUNDING FOR LOCAL ENTITIES ADDRESSING SOCIAL DETERMINANTS 
              OF MATERNAL HEALTH.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $175,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, to award grants to community-based 
organizations, Urban Indian organizations, Native Hawaiian 
organizations, or other nonprofit organizations working with a 
community-based organization, operating in areas with high rates of 
adverse maternal health outcomes or with significant racial or ethnic 
disparities in maternal health outcomes.
    (b) Use of Funding.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Addressing social determinants of maternal health for 
        pregnant and postpartum individuals and eliminating racial and 
        ethnic disparities in maternal health outcomes by--
                    (A) hiring, training, or retaining staff;
                    (B) developing or distributing culturally and 
                linguistically appropriate resources for social 
                services programs;
                    (C) offering programs and resources to address 
                social determinants of health;
                    (D) conducting demonstration projects to address 
                social determinants of health;
                    (E) establishing a culturally and linguistically 
                appropriate resource center that provides multiple 
                social services programs in a single location; and
                    (F) consulting with pregnant and postpartum 
                individuals to conduct an assessment of the activities 
                conducted under this section.
            (2) Promoting evidence-based health literacy and pregnancy, 
        childbirth, and parenting education for pregnant and postpartum 
        individuals, and individuals seeking to become pregnant.
            (3) Providing support from perinatal health workers, 
        support persons, and providers to pregnant and postpartum 
        individuals.
            (4) Providing culturally congruent, linguistically 
        appropriate, and trauma-informed training to perinatal health 
        workers.
            (5) Conducting outreach to eligible entities to encourage 
        such entities to apply for grants under this section.
            (6) Providing technical assistance to the eligible entities 
        receiving funding under this section.
    (c) Minimum for Community-Based Organizations.--Of the amounts made 
available by subsection (a), the Secretary shall award not less than 
$75,000,000 for the Office of Minority Health to award grants to 
community-based organizations to carry out the activities described in 
subsection (b).

SEC. 31042. FUNDING TO GROW AND DIVERSIFY THE NURSING WORKFORCE IN 
              MATERNAL AND PERINATAL HEALTH.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $150,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to accredited schools of nursing 
for the purpose of growing and diversifying the perinatal nursing 
workforce.
    (b) Uses of Funds.--
            (1) Grantees.--Prioritizing students and registered nurses 
        who practice in a health professional shortage area designated 
        under such section of the Public Health Service Act, amounts 
        made available to grantees by subsection (a) shall be used for 
        the following activities:
                    (A) Providing scholarships to students seeking to 
                become nurse practitioners whose education includes a 
                focus on maternal and perinatal health.
                    (B) Providing scholarships to students seeking to 
                become clinical nurse specialists whose education 
                includes a focus on maternal and perinatal health.
                    (C) Providing scholarships to students seeking to 
                become certified nurse midwives.
                    (D) Providing scholarships to registered nurses 
                seeking certification as an obstetrics and gynecology 
                registered nurse.
            (2) Secretary.--The Secretary shall use amounts made 
        available pursuant to subsection (a) for the following 
        activities:
                    (A) Developing and implementing strategies to 
                recruit and retain a diverse pool of students seeking 
                to enter careers focused on maternal and perinatal 
                health.
                    (B) Developing partnerships with practice settings 
                in a health professional shortage area designated under 
                section 332 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
                254e) for the clinical placements of students at the 
                schools receiving such grants.
                    (C) Developing curriculum for students seeking to 
                enter careers focused on maternal and perinatal health 
                that includes training programs on bias, racism, or 
                discrimination.
                    (D) Carrying out other activities under title VIII 
                of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 296 et 
                seq.) for the purpose under subsection (a).

SEC. 31043. FUNDING TO GROW AND DIVERSIFY THE DOULA WORKFORCE.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to health professions schools, 
academic health centers, State or local governments, territories, 
Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations, Urban Indian organizations, 
Native Hawaiian organizations, or other appropriate public or private 
nonprofit entities (or consortia of entities, including entities 
promoting multidisciplinary approaches), to establish or expand 
programs to grow and diversify the doula workforce.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Establishing programs that provide education and 
        training to individuals seeking appropriate training or 
        certification as doulas.
            (2) Expanding the capacity of existing programs described 
        in paragraph (1), for the purpose of increasing the number of 
        students enrolled in such programs, including by awarding 
        scholarships for students.
            (3) Developing and implementing strategies to recruit and 
        retain students from underserved communities, particularly from 
        demographic groups experiencing high rates of maternal 
        mortality and severe maternal morbidity, including racial and 
        ethnic minority groups, into programs described in paragraphs 
        (1) and (2).

SEC. 31044. FUNDING TO GROW AND DIVERSIFY THE MATERNAL MENTAL HEALTH 
              AND SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER TREATMENT WORKFORCE.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $75,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to health professions schools, 
academic health centers, State or local governments, territories, 
Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations, Urban Indian organizations, 
Native Hawaiian organizations, or other appropriate public or private 
nonprofit entities (or consortia of entities, including entities 
promoting multidisciplinary approaches), to establish or expand 
programs to grow and diversify the maternal mental health and substance 
use disorder treatment workforce.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Establishing programs that provide education and 
        training to individuals seeking appropriate licensing or 
        certification as mental health or substance use disorder 
        treatment providers who plan to specialize in maternal mental 
        health conditions or substance use disorders.
            (2) Expanding the capacity of existing programs described 
        in paragraph (1), for the purposes of increasing the number of 
        students enrolled in such programs, including by awarding 
        scholarships for students.
            (3) Developing and implementing strategies to recruit and 
        retain students from underserved communities into programs 
        described in paragraphs (1) and (2).

SEC. 31045. FUNDING FOR MATERNAL MENTAL HEALTH EQUITY GRANT PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to community-based organizations, 
Urban Indian organizations, Native Hawaiian organizations, health care 
providers, accredited medical schools, accredited schools of nursing, 
teaching hospitals, accredited midwifery programs, physician assistant 
education programs, residency or fellowship programs, or other 
nonprofit organizations, schools, or programs determined appropriate by 
the Secretary, to address maternal mental health conditions and 
substance use disorders with respect to pregnant, lactating, and 
postpartum individuals in areas with high rates of adverse maternal 
health outcomes or with significant racial or ethnic disparities in 
maternal health outcomes.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available pursuant to subsection 
(a), prioritizing community-based organizations, shall be for the 
following activities:
            (1) Establishing or expanding maternity care programs to 
        improve the integration of mental health and substance use 
        disorder treatment services into primary care settings where 
        pregnant individuals regularly receive health care services.
            (2) Establishing or expanding group prenatal care programs 
        or postpartum care programs.
            (3) Expanding existing programs that improve maternal 
        mental health and substance use disorder treatment from the 
        preconception through the postpartum periods, with a focus on 
        individuals from racial and ethnic minority groups with high 
        rates of maternal mortality and morbidity.
            (4) Providing services and support for individuals with 
        maternal mental health conditions and substance use disorders, 
        starting in pregnancy and continuing through the postpartum 
        period.
            (5) Addressing stigma associated with maternal mental 
        health conditions and substance use disorders, with a focus on 
        racial and ethnic minority groups.
            (6) Raising awareness of warning signs of maternal mental 
        health conditions and substance use disorders, with a focus on 
        pregnant, lactating, and postpartum individuals from racial and 
        ethnic minority groups.
            (7) Establishing or expanding programs to prevent suicide 
        or self-harm among pregnant, lactating, and postpartum 
        individuals.
            (8) Offering evidence-informed programs at freestanding 
        birth centers that provide maternal mental health and substance 
        use disorder education, treatments, and services, and other 
        services for individuals throughout the prenatal and postpartum 
        period.
            (9) Establishing or expanding programs to provide education 
        and training to maternity care providers with respect to--
                    (A) identifying potential warning signs for 
                maternal mental health conditions or substance use 
                disorders in pregnant, lactating, and postpartum 
                individuals, with a focus on individuals from racial 
                and ethnic minority groups; and
                    (B) in the case where such providers identify such 
                warning signs, offering referrals to mental health 
                substance use disorder treatment professionals.
            (10) Developing a national website, or other source, that 
        includes information on health care providers who treat 
        maternal mental health conditions and substance use disorders.
            (11) Establishing or expanding programs in communities to 
        improve coordination between maternity care providers and 
        mental health and substance use disorder providers who treat 
        maternal mental health conditions and substance use disorders.
            (12) Carrying other programs aligned with evidence-based or 
        evidence-informed practices for addressing maternal mental 
        health conditions and substance use disorders for pregnant and 
        postpartum individuals from racial and ethnic minority groups.

SEC. 31046. FUNDING FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING AT HEALTH PROFESSIONS 
              SCHOOLS TO IDENTIFY AND ADDRESS HEALTH RISKS ASSOCIATED 
              WITH CLIMATE CHANGE.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $85,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to accredited medical schools, 
accredited schools of nursing, teaching hospitals, accredited midwifery 
programs, physician assistant education programs, residency or 
fellowship programs, or other schools or programs determined 
appropriate by the Secretary, to support the development and 
integration of education and training programs for identifying and 
addressing health risks associated with climate change for pregnant, 
lactating, and postpartum individuals.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for developing, integrating, and implementing curriculum and 
continuing education that focuses on the following:
            (1) Identifying health risks associated with climate change 
        for pregnant, lactating, and postpartum individuals and 
        individuals with the intent to become pregnant.
            (2) How health risks associated with climate change affect 
        pregnant, lactating, and postpartum individuals and individuals 
        with the intent to become pregnant.
            (3) Racial and ethnic disparities in exposure to, and the 
        effects of, health risks associated with climate change for 
        pregnant, lactating, and postpartum individuals and individuals 
        with the intent to become pregnant.
            (4) Patient counseling and mitigation strategies relating 
        to health risks associated with climate change for pregnant, 
        lactating, and postpartum individuals.
            (5) Relevant services and support for pregnant, lactating, 
        and postpartum individuals relating to health risks associated 
        with climate change and strategies for ensuring such 
        individuals have access to such services and support.
            (6) Implicit and explicit bias, racism, and discrimination 
        in providing care to pregnant, lactating, and postpartum 
        individuals and individuals with the intent to become pregnant.

SEC. 31047. FUNDING FOR MINORITY-SERVING INSTITUTIONS TO STUDY MATERNAL 
              MORTALITY, SEVERE MATERNAL MORBIDITY, AND ADVERSE 
              MATERNAL HEALTH OUTCOMES.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, to remain 
available until expended for minority-serving institutions described in 
section 371 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067q).
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Developing and implementing systematic processes of 
        listening to the stories of pregnant and postpartum individuals 
        from racial and ethnic minority groups, and perinatal health 
        workers supporting such individuals, to fully understand the 
        causes of, and inform potential solutions to, the maternal 
        mortality and severe maternal morbidity crisis within their 
        respective communities.
            (2) Assessing the potential causes of relatively low rates 
        of maternal mortality among Hispanic individuals and foreign-
        born Black women.
            (3) Assessing differences in rates of adverse maternal 
        health outcomes among subgroups identifying as Hispanic.
            (4) Conducting outreach to eligible minority-serving 
        institutions to raise awareness of the availability of the 
        grants.
            (5) Providing technical assistance on the application 
        process for such grant.
            (6) Promoting capacity building to eligible entities.

SEC. 31048. FUNDING FOR IDENTIFICATION OF MATERNITY CARE HEALTH 
              PROFESSIONAL TARGET AREAS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $25,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for carrying out section 332(k) of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 254e(k)).

SEC. 31049. FUNDING FOR MATERNAL MORTALITY REVIEW COMMITTEES TO PROMOTE 
              REPRESENTATIVE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for carrying out section 317K(d) of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 247b-12(d)) to promote community engagement in maternal 
mortality review committees to increase the diversity of a committee's 
membership with respect to race and ethnicity, location, and 
professional background.

SEC. 31050. FUNDING FOR THE SURVEILLANCE FOR EMERGING THREATS TO 
              MOTHERS AND BABIES.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for carrying out section 317K of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b-12) with respect to conducting 
surveillance for emerging threats to mothers and babies.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Expanding the Surveillance for Emerging Threats to 
        Mothers and Babies activities of the Centers for Disease 
        Control and Prevention.
            (2) Working with public health, clinical, and community-
        based organizations to provide timely, continually updated, 
        evidence-based guidance to families and health care providers 
        on ways to reduce risk to pregnant and postpartum individuals 
        and their newborns and tailor interventions to improve their 
        long-term health.
            (3) Partnering with more State, Tribal, territorial, and 
        local public health programs in the collection and analysis of 
        clinical data on the impact of COVID-19 on pregnant and 
        postpartum patients and their newborns, particularly among 
        patients from racial and ethnic minority groups.
            (4) Establishing regionally based centers of excellence to 
        offer medical, public health, and other knowledge (in 
        coordination with State and Tribal public health authorities) 
        to ensure that communities, especially communities with large 
        populations of individuals from racial and ethnic minority 
        groups, can help pregnant and postpartum individuals and 
        newborns get the care and support they need.

SEC. 31051. FUNDING FOR ENHANCING REVIEWS AND SURVEILLANCE TO ELIMINATE 
              MATERNAL MORTALITY PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $30,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for carrying out the Enhancing Reviews and 
Surveillance to Eliminate Maternal Mortality program established under 
section 317K of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b-12).
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Expanding the Enhancing Reviews and Surveillance to 
        Eliminate Maternal Mortality program (commonly known as the 
        ``ERASE MM program'') of the Centers for Disease Control and 
        Prevention.
            (2) Expanding partnerships with States, territories, Indian 
        Tribes, and Tribal organizations to support Maternal Mortality 
        Review Committees.
            (3) Providing technical assistance to existing maternal 
        mortality review committees.

SEC. 31052. FUNDING FOR THE PREGNANCY RISK ASSESSMENT MONITORING 
              SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $15,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for carrying out section 317K of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b-12) with respect to the Pregnancy 
Risk Assessment Monitoring System.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available by subsection (a) shall 
be used for the following activities:
            (1) Supporting COVID-19 supplements to the Pregnancy Risk 
        Assessment Monitoring System questionnaire.
            (2) Conducting a rapid assessment of COVID-19 awareness, 
        impact on care and experiences, and use of preventive measures 
        among pregnant, laboring and birthing, and postpartum 
        individuals.
            (3) Supporting the transition of the questionnaire 
        described in paragraph (1) to an electronic platform and 
        expanding the distribution of the questionnaire to a larger 
        population, with a special focus on reaching underrepresented 
        communities.

SEC. 31053. FUNDING FOR THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CHILD HEALTH AND 
              HUMAN DEVELOPMENT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $15,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for carrying out section 301 of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 241) and title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 281 et seq.) with respect to child health and human development, 
to conduct or support research for interventions to mitigate the 
effects of the COVID-19 public health emergency on pregnant, lactating, 
and postpartum individuals, with a particular focus on individuals from 
racial and ethnic minority groups.

SEC. 31054. FUNDING FOR EXPANDING THE USE OF TECHNOLOGY-ENABLED 
              COLLABORATIVE LEARNING AND CAPACITY MODELS FOR PREGNANT 
              AND POSTPARTUM INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $30,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to community-based organizations, 
health care providers, accredited medical schools, accredited schools 
of nursing, teaching hospitals, accredited midwifery programs, 
physician assistant education programs, residency or fellowship 
programs, or other schools or programs determined appropriate by the 
Secretary, that are operating in health professional shortage areas 
designated under section 332 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 254e) with high rates of adverse maternal health outcomes or 
significant racial and ethnic disparities in maternal health outcomes, 
to evaluate, develop, and expand the use of technology-enabled 
collaborative learning.
    (b) Use of Funds.--
            (1) Grantees.--A recipient of a grant awarded pursuant to 
        subsection (a) shall use such grant amounts to--
                    (A) train maternal health care providers and 
                students through the use and expansion of technology-
                enabled collaborative learning and capacity building 
                models, including hardware and software that--
                            (i) enables distance learning and technical 
                        support; and
                            (ii) supports the secure exchange of 
                        electronic health information; and
                    (B) conduct evaluations on the use of technology-
                enabled collaborative learning to improve maternal 
                health outcomes.
            (2) Secretary.--The Secretary shall use amounts made 
        available pursuant to subsection (a) to provide technical 
        assistance to recipients of grants awarded pursuant to 
        subsection (a) on the development, use, and sustainability of 
        technology-enabled collaborative learning and capacity building 
        models to expand access to maternal health services provided by 
        such entities.

SEC. 31055. FUNDING FOR PROMOTING EQUITY IN MATERNAL HEALTH OUTCOMES 
              THROUGH DIGITAL TOOLS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $30,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to community-based organizations, 
health care providers, accredited medical schools, accredited schools 
of nursing, teaching hospitals, accredited midwifery programs, 
physician assistant education programs, residency or fellowship 
programs, or other schools or programs determined appropriate by the 
Secretary, that are operating in health professional shortage areas 
designated under section 332 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 254e) with high rates of adverse maternal health outcomes or 
significant racial and ethnic disparities in maternal health outcomes 
to reduce racial and ethnic disparities in maternal health outcomes by 
increasing access to digital tools related to maternal health care.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall be used for the following activities:
            (1) Increasing access to digital tools that could improve 
        maternal health outcomes, such as wearable technologies, 
        patient portals, telehealth services, and mobile phone 
        applications.
            (2) Providing technical assistance to recipients of grants 
        awarded pursuant to subsection (a) on the development, use, 
        evaluation, and postgrant sustainability of digital tools for 
        purposes of promoting equity in maternal health outcomes.

SEC. 31056. FUNDING FOR ANTIDISCRIMINATION AND BIAS TRAINING.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $25,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for the purpose described in subsection (b).
    (b) Use of Funds.--The Secretary shall use amounts appropriated 
under subsection (a) to award competitive grants or contracts to 
national nonprofit organizations focused on improving health equity, 
accredited schools of medicine or nursing, and other health 
professional training programs to develop, disseminate, review, 
research, and evaluate training for health professionals and all staff 
who interact with patients to reduce discrimination and bias in the 
provision of health care, with a focus on maternal health care.
