---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# PART 1 - HEALTH CARE INFRASTRUCTURE AND WORKFORCE

## SEC. 31001. FUNDING TO SUPPORT CORE PUBLIC HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE FOR 
              STATE, TERRITORIAL, LOCAL, AND TRIBAL HEALTH DEPARTMENTS 
              AT THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this 
subtitle referred to as the ``Secretary'') for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $7,000,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, to carry out, acting through the 
Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (in this 
section referred to as the ``Director''), activities described in 
subsection (b).
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall be used to support core public health infrastructure 
activities to strengthen the public health system of the United States, 
including by awarding grants under this section and expanding and 
improving activities of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
under subsections (c) and (d).
    (c) Grants.--
            (1) Awards.--For the purpose of addressing core public 
        health infrastructure needs, the Secretary shall award--
                    (A) a grant to each State or territorial health 
                department, and to local health departments that serve 
                counties with a population of at least 2,000,000 or 
                cities with a population of at least 400,000 people; 
                and
                    (B) grants on a competitive basis to State, 
                territorial, local, or Tribal health departments.
            (2) Allocation.--Of the total amount of funds awarded as 
        grants under this subsection for a fiscal year--
                    (A) not less than 50 percent shall be for grants to 
                health departments under paragraph (1)(A); and
                    (B) not less than 25 percent shall be for grants to 
                State, local, territorial, or Tribal health departments 
                under paragraph (1)(B).
            (3) Required uses.--
                    (A) Reallocation to local health departments.--A 
                State health department receiving funds under 
                subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1) shall allocate 
                at least 25 percent of the such funds to local health 
                departments, as applicable, within the State to support 
                contributions of the local health departments to core 
                public health infrastructure.
                    (B) Progress in meeting accreditation standards.--A 
                health department receiving funds under this section 
                that is not accredited shall report to the Secretary on 
                an annual basis how the department is working to meet 
                accreditation standards.
            (4) Formula grants to health departments.--In awarding 
        grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall award funds to 
        each health department in accordance with a formula which 
        considers population size, the Social Vulnerability Index of 
        the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and other 
        factors as determined by the Secretary.
            (5) Competitive grants to state, territorial, local, and 
        tribal health departments.--In making grants under paragraph 
        (1)(B), the Secretary shall give priority to applicants 
        demonstrating core public health infrastructure needs for all 
        public health agencies in the applicant's jurisdiction.
            (6) Permitted uses.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may make available a 
                subset of the funds available for grants under 
                paragraph (1) for purposes of awarding grants to State, 
                territorial, local, and Tribal health departments for 
                planning or to support public health accreditation.
                    (B) Uses.--Recipients of such grants may use the 
                grant funds to assess core public health infrastructure 
                needs and report to the Centers for Disease Control and 
                Prevention on efforts to achieve accreditation, as 
                applicable.
            (7) Requirements.--To be eligible for a grant under this 
        section, an entity shall--
                    (A) submit an application in such form and 
                containing such information as the Secretary shall 
                require;
                    (B) demonstrate to the satisfaction of the 
                Secretary that--
                            (i) funds received through the grant will 
                        be expended only to supplement, and not 
                        supplant, non-Federal and Federal funds 
                        otherwise available to the entity for the 
                        purpose of addressing core public health 
                        infrastructure needs; and
                            (ii) with respect to activities for which 
                        the grant is awarded, the entity will maintain 
                        expenditures of non-Federal amounts for such 
                        activities at a level not less than the level 
                        of such expenditures maintained by the entity 
                        for fiscal year 2019; and
                    (C) agree to report annually to the Director 
                regarding the use of the grant funds.
    (d) Core Public Health Infrastructure and Activities for the CDC.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the 
        Director, shall expand and improve the core public health 
        infrastructure and activities of the Centers for Disease 
        Control and Prevention to support activities necessary to 
        address unmet, ongoing, and emerging public health needs, 
        including prevention, preparation for, and response to public 
        health emergencies.
            (2) Limitation.--Out of amounts appropriated under 
        subsection (a) to carry out this section for a fiscal year, not 
        more than 25 percent of the funds awarded per fiscal year may 
        be used by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to 
        carry out this subsection.
    (e) Definition.--In this section, the term ``core public health 
infrastructure'' includes--
            (1) workforce capacity and competency;
            (2) laboratory systems;
            (3) all hazards public health and preparedness;
            (3) testing capacity, including test platforms, mobile 
        testing units, and personnel;
            (4) health information, health information systems, and 
        health information analysis;
            (5) disease surveillance;
            (6) contact tracing;
            (7) communications;
            (8) financing;
            (9) other relevant components of organizational capacity; 
        and
            (10) other related activities.
    (f) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts made available by this 
section shall be used to supplement, and not supplant, amounts 
otherwise made available for the purposes described in this Act.

SEC. 31002. FUNDING FOR HOSPITAL INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $10,000,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, to carry out subsection (b) consistent with 
enhancing the goals of parts B and C of title XVI of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300q et seq.).
    (b) Use of Funds.--From amounts made available under subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall, with priority given to applicants whose 
projects will include, by design, public health emergency preparedness, 
natural disaster emergency preparedness, or cybersecurity against cyber 
threats, award grants to entities described in section 1610(a) of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300r(a)) for purposes of 
increasing capacity and updating hospitals and other medical facilities 
in order to better serve communities in need.
    (c) Conditions.--The following requirements of parts B and C of 
title XVI of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300r et seq.) 
shall apply to funds made available under this section:
            (1) The requirements related to reasonable volume of care 
        described under section 1621(b)(1)(K)(ii) of such Act (42 
        U.S.C. 300s-1(b)(1)(K)(ii)).
            (2) Section 1621(b)(1)(I) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 300s-
        1(b)(1)(I)).
            (3) Any other provision of such parts that the Secretary 
        determines (as prescribed by regulation) to be appropriate to 
        carry out this section.

SEC. 31003. FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER CAPITAL GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $10,000,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for necessary expenses for awarding grants 
and entering into cooperative agreements for capital projects to health 
centers funded under section 330 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 254b) to be awarded without regard to the time limitation in 
subsection (e)(3) and subsections (e)(6)(A)(iii), (e)(6)(B)(iii), and 
(r)(2)(B) of such section 330, and for necessary expenses for awarding 
grants and cooperative agreements for capital projects to Federally 
qualified health centers, as described in section 1861(aa)(4)(B) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(aa)(4)(B)). The Secretary shall 
take such steps as may be necessary to expedite the awarding of such 
grants to Federally qualified health centers for capital projects.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available to a recipient of a grant 
or cooperative agreement pursuant to subsection (a) shall be used for 
health center facility alteration, renovation, remodeling, expansion, 
construction, and other capital improvement costs, including the costs 
of amortizing the principal of, and paying interest on, loans for such 
purposes.

SEC. 31004. FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY-BASED CARE INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $500,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for purposes of making awards to qualified 
teaching health centers (as defined in section 340H of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 256h)), behavioral health care centers 
(as defined by the Secretary to include both substance abuse and mental 
health care facilities), and pediatric mental health care providers (as 
used in section 330M(b)(1)(G) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 254c-19(b)(1)(G))).
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall be used to support the improvement, renovation, or 
modernization of infrastructure at such centers, including to respond 
to public health emergencies declared under section 319 of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d).

SEC. 31005. FUNDING FOR SCHOOLS OF MEDICINE IN UNDERSERVED AREAS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for purposes of making awards to eligible 
entities for the establishment, improvement, or expansion of an 
allopathic or osteopathic school of medicine, or a branch campus of an 
allopathic or osteopathic school of medicine, consistent with 
subsection (b).
    (b) Use of Funds.--The Secretary, acting through the Administrator 
of the Health Resources and Services Administration, shall, with 
priority given to minority-serving institutions described in section 
371(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067q(a)), and 
taking into consideration equitable distribution of awards among the 
geographical regions of the United States (which shall include rural 
regions and populations as defined by the Secretary for the purposes of 
this section) and the locations of existing schools of medicine and 
osteopathic medicine, use amounts appropriated by subsection (a) to 
award grants to eligible entities to--
            (1) recruit, enroll, and retain students, including 
        individuals who are from disadvantaged backgrounds (including 
        racial and ethnic groups underrepresented among medical 
        students and health professions), individuals from rural and 
        underserved areas, low-income individuals, and first generation 
        college students (as defined in section 402A(h)(3) of the 
        Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070a-11(h)(3))), at a 
        school of medicine or osteopathic medicine or branch campus of 
        a school of medicine or osteopathic medicine;
            (2) develop, implement, and expand curriculum that 
        emphasizes care for rural and underserved populations, 
        including accessible and culturally appropriate and 
        linguistically appropriate care and services, at such school or 
        branch campus;
            (3) plan and construct a school of medicine or osteopathic 
        medicine in an area in which no other such school or branch 
        campus of such a school is based;
            (4) plan, develop, and meet criteria for accreditation for 
        a school of medicine or osteopathic medicine or branch campus 
        of such a school;
            (5) hire faculty, including faculty from racial and ethnic 
        groups who are underrepresented among the medical and other 
        health professions, and other staff to serve at such a school 
        or branch campus;
            (6) support educational programs at such a school or branch 
        campus, including modernizing curriculum;
            (7) modernize and expand infrastructure at such a school or 
        branch campus; or
            (8) support other activities that the Secretary determines 
        will further the establishment, improvement, or expansion of a 
        school of medicine or osteopathic medicine or branch campus of 
        a school of medicine or osteopathic medicine.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means an 
        institution of higher education as defined in section 101 of 
        the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).
            (2) Branch campus.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``branch campus'', with 
                respect to a school of medicine or osteopathic 
                medicine, means an additional location of such school 
                that is geographically apart and independent of the 
                main campus, at which the school offers at least 50 
                percent of the program leading to a degree of doctor of 
                medicine or doctor of osteopathy that is offered at the 
                main campus.
                    (B) Independence from main campus.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A), the location of a school described in 
                such subparagraph shall be considered to be independent 
                of the main campus described in such subparagraph if 
                the location--
                            (i) is permanent in nature;
                            (ii) offers courses in educational programs 
                        leading to a degree, certificate, or other 
                        recognized educational credential;
                            (iii) has its own faculty and 
                        administrative or supervisory organization; and
                            (iv) has its own budgetary and hiring 
                        authority.

SEC. 31006. FUNDING FOR NURSING EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT AND MODERNIZATION 
              GRANTS IN UNDERSERVED AREAS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for purposes of making awards to schools of 
nursing (as defined in section 801 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 296)) to enhance and modernize nursing education programs and 
increase the number of faculty and students at such schools.
    (b) Use of Funds.--The Secretary, acting through the Administrator 
of the Health Resources and Services Administration, taking into 
consideration equitable distribution of awards among the geographical 
regions of the United States and the capacity of a school of nursing to 
provide care in underserved areas, shall use amounts appropriated by 
subsection (a) to award grants for purposes of--
            (1) recruiting, enrolling, and retaining students at such 
        school, with a priority for students from disadvantaged 
        backgrounds (including racial or ethnic groups underrepresented 
        in the nursing workforce), individuals from rural and 
        underserved areas, low-income individuals, and first generation 
        college students (as defined in section 402A(h)(3) of the 
        Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070a-11(h)(3)));
            (2) creating, supporting, or modernizing educational 
        programs and curricula at such school;
            (3) retaining current faculty, and hiring new faculty, with 
        an emphasis on faculty from racial or ethnic groups that are 
        underrepresented in the nursing workforce;
            (4) modernizing infrastructure at such school, including 
        audiovisual or other equipment, personal protective equipment, 
        simulation and augmented reality resources, telehealth 
        technologies, and virtual and physical laboratories;
            (5) partnering with a health care facility, nurse-managed 
        health clinic, community health center, or other facility that 
        provides health care, in order to provide educational 
        opportunities for the purpose of establishing or expanding 
        clinical education;
            (6) enhancing and expanding nursing programs that prepare 
        nurse researchers and scientists;
            (7) establishing nurse-led intradisciplinary and 
        interprofessional educational partnerships; or
            (8) other activities that the Secretary determines will 
        further the development, improvement, and expansion of schools 
        of nursing.

SEC. 31007. FUNDING FOR TEACHING HEALTH CENTER GRADUATE MEDICAL 
              EDUCATION.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, and 
notwithstanding the limitations referred to in subsections (b)(2) and 
(d)(2) of section 340H of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
256h), there is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$6,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, for--
            (1) the program of payments to teaching health centers that 
        operate graduate medical education programs under such section; 
        and
            (2) the award of teaching health center development grants 
        pursuant to section 749A of the Public Health Service Act (42 
        U.S.C. 293l-1).
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall be used for the following activities:
            (1) For making payments to establish new approved graduate 
        medical residency training programs pursuant to section 
        340H(a)(1)(C) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
        256h(a)(1)(C)).
            (2) For making payments under section 340H(a)(1)(A) of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 256h(a)(1)(A))) to 
        qualified teaching health centers for maintenance of filled 
        positions at existing approved graduate medical residency 
        training programs.
            (3) For making payments under section 340H(a)(1)(B) of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 256h(a)(1)(B)) for the 
        expansion of existing approved graduate medical residency 
        training programs.
            (4) For making awards under section 749A of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 293l-1) to teaching health 
        centers for the purpose of establishing new accredited or 
        expanded primary care residency programs.
            (5) To provide an increase to the per resident amount 
        described in section 340H(a)(2) of the Public Health Service 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 256h(a)(2)).

SEC. 31008. FUNDING FOR CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS THAT OPERATE GRADUATE 
              MEDICAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $250,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for carrying out section 340E of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 256e).

SEC. 31009. FUNDING FOR THE NURSE CORPS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $300,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for carrying out section 846 of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 297n).
