---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Part 2 - Provisions Relating To Elder Justice

SEC. 134201. REAUTHORIZATION OF FUNDING FOR PROGRAMS TO PREVENT AND 
              INVESTIGATE ELDER ABUSE, NEGLECT, AND EXPLOITATION.

    (a) Long-term Care Staff Training Grants.--Section 2041 of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397m) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 2041. NURSING HOME WORKER TRAINING GRANTS.

    ``(a) Appropriation.--Out of any funds in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, there is appropriated to the Secretary for each 
of fiscal years 2022 through 2025--
            ``(1) $392,000,000for grants under subsection (b)(1); and
            ``(2) $8,000,000 for grants under subsection (b)(2).
    ``(b) Grants.--
            ``(1) State entitlement.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Each State shall be entitled to 
                receive from the Secretary for each fiscal year 
                specified in subsection (a) a grant in an amount equal 
                to the amount allotted to the State under subparagraph 
                (B) of this paragraph.
                    ``(B) State allotments.--The amount allotted to a 
                State under this subparagraph for a fiscal year shall 
                be--
                            ``(i) the amount made available by 
                        subsection (a) for the fiscal year that is not 
                        required to be reserved by subsection (a); 
                        multiplied by
                            ``(ii)(I) the number of State residents who 
                        have attained 65 years of age or are 
                        individuals with a disability, as determined by 
                        the Secretary using the most recent version of 
                        the American Community Survey published by the 
                        Bureau of the Census or a successor data set; 
                        divided by
                            ``(II) the total number of such residents 
                        of all States.
            ``(2) Grants to indian tribes and tribal organizations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation 
                with the Indian tribes and tribal organizations, shall 
                make grants in accordance with this section to Indian 
                tribes and tribal organizations who operate at least 1 
                eligible setting.
                    ``(B) Grant formula.--The Secretary, in 
                consultation with the Indian tribes and tribal 
                organizations, shall devise a formula for distributing 
                among Indian tribes and tribal organizations the amount 
                required to be reserved by subsection (a) for each 
                fiscal year.
            ``(3) Sub-grants.--A State, Indian tribe, or tribal 
        organization to which an amount is paid under this paragraph 
        may use the amount to make sub-grants to local organizations, 
        including community organizations, local non-profits, elder 
        rights and justice groups, and workforce development boards for 
        any purpose described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection 
        (c).
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--
            ``(1) Required uses.--A State to which an amount is paid 
        under subsection (b) shall use the amount to--
                    ``(A) provide wage subsidies to eligible 
                individuals;
                    ``(B) provide student loan repayment or tuition 
                assistance to eligible individuals for a degree or 
                certification in a field relevant to their position 
                referred to in subsection (f)(1)(A);
                    ``(C) guarantee affordable and accessible child 
                care for eligible individuals, including help with 
                referrals, co-pays, or other direct assistance; and
                    ``(D) provide assistance where necessary with 
                obtaining appropriate transportation, including public 
                transportation if available, or gas money or transit 
                vouchers for ride share, taxis, and similar types of 
                transportation if public transportation is unavailable 
                or impractical based on work hours or location.
            ``(2) Authorized uses.--A State to which an amount is paid 
        under subsection (b) may use the amount to--
                    ``(A) establish a reserve fund for financial 
                assistance to eligible individuals in emergency 
                situations;
                    ``(B) provide in-kind resource donations, such as 
                interview clothing and conference attendance fees;
                    ``(C) provide assistance with programs and 
                activities, including legal assistance, deemed 
                necessary to address arrest or conviction records that 
                are an employment barrier;
                    ``(D) support employers operating an eligible 
                setting in the State in providing employees with not 
                less than 2 weeks of paid leave per year; or
                    ``(E) provide other support services the Secretary 
                deems necessary to allow for successful recruitment and 
                retention of workers.
            ``(3) Provision of funds only for the benefit of eligible 
        individuals in eligible settings.--A State to which an amount 
        is paid under subsection (b) may provide the amount to only an 
        eligible individual or a partner organization serving an 
        eligible individual.
            ``(4) Nonsupplantation.--A State to which an amount is paid 
        under subsection (b) shall not use the amount to supplant the 
        expenditure of any State funds for recruiting or retaining 
        employees in an eligible setting.
    ``(d) Administration.--A State to which a grant is made under 
subsection (b) shall reserve not more than 10 percent of the grant to--
            ``(1) administer subgrants in accordance with this section;
            ``(2) provide technical assistance and support for applying 
        for and accessing such a subgrant opportunity;
            ``(3) publicize the availability of the subgrants;
            ``(4) carry out activities to increase the supply of 
        eligible individuals; and
            ``(5) provide technical assistance to help subgrantees find 
        and train individuals to provide the services for which they 
        are contracted.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Eligible individual.--The term `eligible individual' 
        means an individual who--
                    ``(A)(i) is a qualified home health aide, as 
                defined in section 484.80(a) of title 42, Code of 
                Federal Regulations;
                    ``(ii) is a nurse aide approved by the State as 
                meeting the requirements of sections 483.150 through 
                483.154 of such title, and is listed in good standing 
                on the State nurse aide registry;
                    ``(iii) is a personal care aide approved by the 
                State, and furnishes personal care services, as defined 
                in section 440.167 of such title;
                    ``(iv) is a qualified hospice aide, as defined in 
                section 418.76 of such title; or
                    ``(v) is a licensed practical nurse or a licensed 
                or certified social worker; or
                    ``(vi) is receiving training to be certified or 
                licensed as such an aide, nurse, or social worker; and
                    ``(B) provides (or, in the case of a trainee, 
                intends to provide) services as such an aide, nurse, or 
                social worker in an eligible setting.
            ``(2) Eligible setting.--The term `eligible setting' 
        means--
                    ``(A) a skilled nursing facility, as defined in 
                section 1819;
                    ``(B) a nursing facility, as defined in section 
                1919;
                    ``(C) a home health agency, as defined in section 
                1891;
                    ``(D) a facility provider approved to deliver home 
                or community-based services authorized under State 
                options described in subsection (c) or (i) of section 
                1915 or, as relevant, demonstration projects authorized 
                under section 1115;
                    ``(E) a hospice, as defined in section 1814; or
                    ``(F) a tribal assisted living facility.
            ``(3) Tribal organization.--The term `tribal organization' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act.''.
    (b) Adult Protective Services Functions and Grant Programs.--
            (1) Direct funding; state entitlement.--Section 2042 of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397m-1) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)(A)--
                                    (I) by striking ``offices'' and 
                                inserting ``programs''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``and adults who 
                                are under a disability (as defined in 
                                section 216(i)(1))'' before the 
                                semicolon; and
                            (ii) by striking paragraph (2) and 
                        inserting the following:
            ``(2) Appropriation.--Out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the Secretary 
        $8,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2025 to carry 
        out this subsection.'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), by 
                                striking ``the availability of 
                                appropriations and''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B)--
                                            (aa) in the heading for 
                                        clause (i), by inserting ``and 
                                        the district of columbia'' 
                                        after ``States''; and
                                            (bb) in clause (ii), by 
                                        inserting ``or the District of 
                                        Columbia'' after ``States''; 
                                        and
                            (ii) by striking paragraph (5) and 
                        inserting the following:
            ``(5) Appropriation.--Out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the Secretary 
        for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2025--
                    ``(A) $392,000,000 for grants to States under this 
                subsection; and
                    ``(B) $8,000,000 for grants to Indian tribes and 
                tribal organizations under this subsection.''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c), by striking paragraph (6) 
                and inserting the following:
            ``(6) Appropriation.--Out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the Secretary 
        $75,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2025 to carry 
        out this subsection.''.
            (2) State entitlement; grants to indian tribes and tribal 
        organizations.--Section 2042 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1397m-1) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)(A), by striking ``State 
                and local'' and inserting ``State, local, and tribal'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``the 
                Secretary shall annually award grants to States in the 
                amounts calculated under paragraph (2)'' and inserting 
                ``each State shall be entitled to annually receive from 
                the Secretary in the amounts calculated under paragraph 
                (2), and the Secretary may annually award to each 
                Indian tribe and tribal organization in accordance with 
                paragraph (3), grants'';
                    (C) in subsection (b)(2)--
                            (i) in the paragraph heading, by inserting 
                        ``for a state'' after ``payment'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``to 
                        carry out'' and inserting ``for grants to 
                        States under''; and
                            (iii) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking 
                        ``such year'' and inserting ``for grants to 
                        States under this subsection for the fiscal 
                        year''; and
                    (D) in subsection (b), by redesignating paragraphs 
                (3) through (5) as paragraphs (4) through (6), 
                respectively, and inserting after paragraph (2) the 
                following:
            ``(3) Amount of payment to indian tribe or tribal 
        organization.--The Secretary, in consultation with Indian 
        tribes and tribal organizations, shall determine the amount of 
        any grant to be made to each Indian tribe and tribal 
        organization under this subsection. Paragraphs (4) and (5) 
        shall apply to grantees under this paragraph in the same manner 
        in which the paragraphs apply to States.'';
                    (E) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``to 
                        States'' and inserting ``to States, Indian 
                        tribes, and tribal organizations'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and 
                                Indian tribes and tribal 
                                organizations'' after ``government''; 
                                and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (D), by 
                                inserting ``or Indian tribe or tribal 
                                organization, as the case may be'' 
                                after ``government'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``or 
                        Indian tribe or tribal organization'' after ``a 
                        State'' the 1st place it appears; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (5)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``or Indian tribe 
                                or tribal organization'' after ``Each 
                                State''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``or Indian tribe 
                                or tribal organization, as the case may 
                                be'' after ``the State''; and
                    (F) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Definitions of Indian Tribe and Tribal Organization.--In this 
section, the terms `Indian tribe' and `tribal organization' have the 
meanings given the terms in section 419.''.
            (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 2011(2) of such Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1397j(2)) is amended by striking ``such services 
        provided to adults as the Secretary may specify'' and inserting 
        ``services provided by an entity authorized by or under State 
        law address neglect, abuse, and exploitation of older adults 
        and people with disabilities''.
    (c) Long-term Care Ombudsman Program Grants and Training.--Section 
2043 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397m-2) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph (2) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(2) Appropriation.--Out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the Secretary 
        to carry out this subsection--
                    ``(A) $22,500,000 for fiscal year 2023; and
                    ``(B) $30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 and 
                2025.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking paragraph (2) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(2) Appropriation.--Out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the Secretary 
        $30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2025 to carry 
        out this subsection.''.
    (d) Incentives for Developing and Sustaining Structural Competency 
in Providing Health and Human Services.--Part II of subtitle B of title 
XX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397m-1397m-5) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 2047. INCENTIVES FOR DEVELOPING AND SUSTAINING STRUCTURAL 
              COMPETENCY IN PROVIDING HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES.

    ``(a) Grants to States to Support Linkages to Legal Services and 
Medical Legal Partnerships.--
            ``(1) Appropriation.--Out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the Secretary 
        $500,000,000 for fiscal year 2022, to remain available for the 
        purposes of this subsection through fiscal year 2028.
            ``(2) Grants.--Within 2 years after the date of the 
        enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish and 
        administer a program of grants to States to support the 
        adoption of evidence-based approaches to establishing or 
        improving and maintaining real-time linkages between health and 
        social services and supports for vulnerable elders or in 
        conjunction with authorized representatives of vulnerable 
        elders, including through the following:
                    ``(A) Medical-legal partnerships.--The 
                establishment and support of medical-legal 
                partnerships, the incorporation of the partnerships in 
                the elder justice framework and health and human 
                services safety net, and the implementation and 
                operation of such a partnership by an eligible 
                grantee--
                            ``(i) at the option of a State, in 
                        conjunction with an area agency on aging;
                            ``(ii) in a solo provider practice in a 
                        health professional shortage area (as defined 
                        in section 332(a) of the Public Health Service 
                        Act), a medically underserved community (as 
                        defined in section 399V of such Act), or a 
                        rural area (as defined in section 330J of such 
                        Act);
                            ``(iii) in a minority-serving institution 
                        of higher learning with health, law, and social 
                        services professional programs;
                            ``(iv) in a federally qualified health 
                        center, as described in section 330 of the 
                        Public Health Service Act, or look-alike, as 
                        described in section 1905(l)(2)(B) of this Act; 
                        or
                            ``(v) in certain hospitals that are 
                        critical access hospitals, Medicare-dependent 
                        hospitals, sole community hospitals, rural 
                        emergency hospitals, or that serve a high 
                        proportion of Medicare or Medicaid patients.
                    ``(B) Legal hotlines development or expansion.--The 
                provision of incentives to develop, enhance, and 
                integrate platforms, such as legal assistance hotlines, 
                that help to facilitate the identification of older 
                adults who could benefit from linkages to available 
                legal services such as those described in subparagraph 
                (A).
            ``(3) State reports.--Each State to which a grant is made 
        under this subsection shall submit to the Secretary biannual 
        reports on the activities carried out by the State pursuant to 
        this subsection, which shall include assessments of the 
        effectiveness of the activities with respect to--
                    ``(A) the number of unique individuals identified 
                through the mechanism outlined in paragraph (2)(B) who 
                are referred to services described in paragraph (2)(A), 
                and the average time period associated with resolving 
                issues;
                    ``(B) the success rate for referrals to community-
                based resources; and
                    ``(C) other factors determined relevant by the 
                Secretary.
            ``(4) Evaluation.--The Secretary shall, by grant, contract, 
        or interagency agreement, evaluate the activities conducted 
        pursuant to this subsection, which shall include a comparison 
        among the States.
            ``(5) Supplement not supplant.--Support provided to area 
        agencies on aging, State units on aging, eligible entities, or 
        other community-based organizations pursuant to this subsection 
        shall be used to supplement and not supplant any other Federal, 
        State, or local funds expended to provide the same or 
        comparable services described in this subsection.
    ``(b) Grants and Training to Support Area Agencies on Aging or 
Other Community-based Organizations to Address Social Isolation Among 
Vulnerable Older Adults and People With Disabilities.--
            ``(1) Appropriation.--Out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the Secretary 
        $250,000,000, to remain available for the purposes of this 
        subsection through fiscal year 2028.
            ``(2) Grants.--The Secretary shall make grants to eligible 
        area agencies on aging or other community-based organizations 
        for the purpose of--
                    ``(A) conducting outreach to individuals at risk 
                for, or already experiencing, social isolation or 
                loneliness, through established screening tools or 
                other methods identified by the Secretary;
                    ``(B) developing community-based interventions for 
                the purposes of mitigating loneliness or social 
                isolation (including evidence-based programs, as 
                defined by the Secretary, developed with multi-
                stakeholder input for the purposes of promoting social 
                connection, mitigating social isolation or loneliness, 
                or preventing social isolation or loneliness) among at-
                risk individuals;
                    ``(C) connecting at-risk individuals with community 
                social and clinical supports; and
                    ``(D) evaluating the effect of programs developed 
                and implemented under subparagraphs (B) and (C).
            ``(3) Training.--The Secretary shall establish programs to 
        provide and improve training for area agencies on aging or 
        community-based organizations with respect to addressing and 
        preventing social isolation and loneliness among older adults 
        and people with disabilities.
            ``(4) Evaluation.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        the enactment of this section and at least once after fiscal 
        year 2025, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a written 
        report which assesses the extent to which the programs 
        established under this subsection address social isolation and 
        loneliness among older adults and people with disabilities.
            ``(5) Coordination.--The Secretary shall coordinate with 
        resource centers, grant programs, or other funding mechanisms 
        established under section 411(a)(18) of the Older Americans Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 3032(a)(18)), section 417(a)(1) of such Act (42 
        U.S.C. 3032F(a)(1)), or other programs as determined by the 
        Secretary.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Area agency on aging.--The term `area agency on 
        aging' means an area agency on aging designated under section 
        305 of the Older Americans Act of 1965.
            ``(2) Social isolation.--The term `social isolation' means 
        objectively being alone, or having few relationships or 
        infrequent social contact.
            ``(3) Loneliness.--The term `loneliness' means subjectively 
        feeling alone, or the discrepancy between one's desired level 
        of social connection and one's actual level of social 
        connection.
            ``(4) Social connection.--The term `social connection' 
        means the variety of ways one can connect to others socially, 
        through physical, behavioral, social-cognitive, and emotional 
        channels.
            ``(5) Community-based organization.--The term `community-
        based organization' includes, except as otherwise provided by 
        the Secretary, a nonprofit community-based organization, a 
        consortium of nonprofit community-based organizations, a 
        national nonprofit organization acting as an intermediary for a 
        community-based organization, or a community-based organization 
        that has a fiscal sponsor that allows the organization to 
        function as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of 
        the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation 
        under section 501(a) of such Code.''.
    (e) Technical Amendment.--Section 2011(12)(A) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397j(12)(A)) is amended by striking ``450b'' 
and inserting ``5304''.

SEC. 134202. APPROPRIATION FOR ASSESSMENTS.

    Out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, there 
are appropriated to the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
$5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2025 to prepare and 
submit to the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate, not later 
than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, and at least once 
after fiscal year 2025, reports on the programs, coordinating bodies, 
registries, and activities established or authorized under subtitle B 
of title XX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397l et seq.) or 
section 6703(b) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 
U.S.C. 1395i-3a), which shall assess the extent to which such programs, 
coordinating bodies, registries, and activities have improved access 
to, and the quality of, resources available to aging Americans and 
their caregivers to ultimately prevent, detect, and treat abuse, 
neglect, and exploitation, and shall include, as appropriate, 
recommendations to Congress on funding levels and policy changes to 
help these programs, coordinating bodies, registries, and activities 
better prevent, detect, and treat abuse, neglect, and exploitation of 
aging Americans.
