---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Part 4 - Medicare Dental, Hearing, And Vision Coverage

SEC. 134401. PROVIDING COVERAGE FOR DENTAL AND ORAL HEALTH CARE UNDER 
              THE MEDICARE PROGRAM.

    (a) Coverage.--Section 1861(s)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1395x(s)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (GG), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (HH), by striking the period at the end 
        and adding ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(II) dental and oral health services (as defined in 
        subsection (lll));''.
    (b) Dental and Oral Health Services Defined.--Section 1861 of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsection:
    ``(lll) Dental and Oral Health Services.--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `dental and oral health 
        services' means items and services (other than such items and 
        services for which payment may be made under part A as 
        inpatient hospital services) that are furnished during 2028 or 
        a subsequent year, for which coverage was not provided under 
        part B as of the date of the enactment of this subsection, and 
        that are--
                    ``(A) the preventive and screening services 
                described in paragraph (2) furnished by a doctor of 
                dental surgery or of dental medicine (as described in 
                subsection (r)(2)) or an oral health professional (as 
                defined in paragraph (4)); or
                    ``(B) the basic treatments specified for such year 
                by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (3)(A) and the 
                major treatments specified for such year by the 
                Secretary pursuant to paragraph (3)(B) furnished by 
                such a doctor or such a professional.
            ``(2) Preventive and screening services.--The preventive 
        and screening services described in this paragraph are the 
        following:
                    ``(A) Oral exams.
                    ``(B) Dental cleanings.
                    ``(C) Dental x-rays performed in the office of a 
                doctor or professional described in paragraph (1)(A).
                    ``(D) Fluoride treatments.
            ``(3) Basic and major treatments.--For 2028 and each 
        subsequent year, the Secretary shall specify--
                    ``(A) basic treatments (which may include basic 
                tooth restorations, basic periodontal services, tooth 
                extractions, and oral disease management services); and
                    ``(B) major treatments (which may include major 
                tooth restorations, major periodontal services, 
                bridges, crowns, and root canals);
        that shall be included as dental and oral health services for 
        such year.
            ``(4) Oral health professional.--The term `oral health 
        professional' means, with respect to dental and oral health 
        services, a health professional (other than a doctor of dental 
        surgery or of dental medicine (as described in subsection 
        (r)(2))) who is licensed to furnish such services, acting 
        within the scope of such license, by the State in which such 
        services are furnished.''.
    (c) Payment; Coinsurance; and Limitations.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1833(a)(1) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1395l(a)(1)) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (N), by inserting ``and dental 
                and oral health services (as defined in section 
                1861(lll))'' after ``section 1861(hhh)(1))'';
                    (B) by striking ``and'' before ``(DD)''; and
                    (C) by inserting before the semicolon at the end 
                the following: ``and (EE) with respect to dental and 
                oral health services (as defined in section 1861(lll)), 
                the amount paid shall be the payment amount specified 
                under section 1834(z)''.
            (2) Payment and limits specified.--Section 1834 of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m) is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new subsection:
    ``(z) Payment and Limits for Dental and Oral Health Services.--
            ``(1) In general.--The payment amount under this part for 
        dental and oral health services (as defined in section 
        1861(lll)) shall be, subject to paragraph (3), the applicable 
        percent (specified in paragraph (2)) of the lesser of--
                    ``(A) the actual charge for the service; or
                    ``(B) the amount determined under the payment basis 
                determined under section 1848 for the service, or, in 
                lieu of such amount, if determined appropriate by the 
                Secretary, an amount specified by the Secretary for 
                such service under a fee schedule determined 
                appropriate by the Secretary, taking into account fee 
                schedules for such services--
                            ``(i) under the TRICARE program under 
                        chapter 55 of title 10 of the United States 
                        Code;
                            ``(ii) under the health insurance program 
                        under chapter 89 of title 5 of such Code;
                            ``(iii) under State plans (or waivers of 
                        such plans) under title XIX;
                            ``(iv) under Medicare Advantage plans under 
                        part C;
                            ``(v) established by the Secretary of 
                        Veterans Affairs; and
                            ``(vi) established by other health care 
                        payers.
            ``(2) Applicable percent.--For purposes of paragraph (1), 
        the applicable percent specified in this paragraph is, with 
        respect to dental and oral health services (as defined in 
        section 1861(lll)) furnished in a year--
                    ``(A) that are preventive and screening services 
                described in paragraph (2) or basic treatments 
                specified for such year pursuant to paragraph (3)(A) of 
                such section, 80 percent; and
                    ``(B) that are major treatments specified for such 
                year pursuant to paragraph (3)(B) of such section--
                            ``(i) in the case such services are 
                        furnished during 2028, 10 percent;
                            ``(ii) in the case such services are 
                        furnished during 2029 or a subsequent year 
                        before 2032, the applicable percent specified 
                        under this subparagraph for the previous year, 
                        increased by 10 percentage points; and
                            ``(iii) in the case such services are 
                        furnished during 2032 or a subsequent year, 50 
                        percent.
            ``(3) Limitations.--With respect to dental and oral health 
        services that are--
                    ``(A) preventive and screening oral exams, payment 
                may be made under this part for not more than two such 
                exams during a 12-month period;
                    ``(B) dental cleanings, payment may be made under 
                this part for not more than two such cleanings during a 
                12-month period; and
                    ``(C) not described in subparagraph (A) or (B), 
                payment may be made under this part only at such 
                frequencies and under such circumstances determined 
                appropriate by the Secretary.
            ``(4) Use of bundled payments.--The Secretary may make 
        payment for dentures and associated professional services, and 
        for any other dental and oral health services, as bundled 
        payments as the Secretary determines appropriate.
            ``(5) Limitation on judicial review.--There shall be no 
        administrative or judicial review under section 1869 or 
        otherwise of--
                    ``(A) the determination of payment amounts under 
                this subsection for dental and oral health services and 
                under subsection (h)(6) or subsection (z)(4) for 
                dentures;
                    ``(B) the determination of what services are basic 
                and major services under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
                section 1861(lll)(3); or
                    ``(C) the determination of the frequency and 
                circumstance limitations for dental and oral health 
                services under paragraph (3)(C).''.
    (d) Payment Under Physician Fee Schedule.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1848(j)(3) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-4(j)(3)) is amended by inserting 
        ``(2)(II),'' before ``(3)''.
            (2) Exclusion from mips.--Section 1848(q)(1)(C)(ii) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-4(q)(1)(C)(ii)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subclause (II), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subclause (III), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subclause:
                                    ``(IV) with respect to 2028 and 
                                each subsequent year, is a doctor of 
                                dental surgery or of dental medicine 
                                (as described in section 1861(r)(2)) or 
                                is an oral health professional (as 
                                defined in section 1861(lll)(4)).''.
            (3) Inclusion of oral health professionals as certain 
        practitioners.--Section 1842(b)(18)(C) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1395u(b)(18)(C)) is amended by adding at the end 
        the following new clause:
            ``(vii) With respect to 2028 and each subsequent year, an 
        oral health professional (as defined in section 
        1861(lll)(4)).''.
    (e) Dentures.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1861(s)(8) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(s)(8)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``(other than dental)''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``and excluding dental, except for 
                a full or partial set of dentures (as described in 
                section 1834(h)(6)) furnished on or after January 1, 
                2028'' after ``colostomy care''.
            (2) Special payment rules.--
                    (A) Limitations.--Section 1834(h) of the Social 
                Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(h)) is amended by adding 
                at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) Special payment rule for dentures.--Payment may be 
        made under this part with respect to an individual for 
        dentures--
                    ``(A) not more than once during any 5-year period 
                (except in the case that a doctor described in section 
                1861(lll)(1)(A) determines such dentures do not fit the 
                individual); and
                    ``(B) only to the extent that such dentures are 
                furnished pursuant to a written order of such a doctor 
                or professional.''.
                    (B) Application of competitive acquisition.--
                            (i) In general.--Section 1834(h)(1)(H) of 
                        the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
                        1395m(h)(1)(H)) is amended--
                                    (I) in the subparagraph heading, by 
                                inserting ``, dentures'' after 
                                ``orthotics'';
                                    (II) by inserting ``, of dentures 
                                described in paragraph (2)(D) of such 
                                section,'' after ``2011,''; and
                                    (III) in clause (i), by inserting 
                                ``, such dentures'' after 
                                ``orthotics''.
                            (ii) Conforming amendment.--Section 
                        1847(a)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 
                        U.S.C. 1395w-3(a)(2)) is amended by adding at 
                        the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) Dentures.--Dentures described in section 
                1861(s)(8) for which payment would otherwise be made 
                under section 1834(h).''.
                            (iii) Exemption of certain items from 
                        competitive acquisition.--Section 1847(a)(7) of 
                        the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-
                        3(a)(7)) is amended by adding at the end the 
                        following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Certain dentures.--Those items and services 
                described in paragraph (2)(D) if furnished by a 
                physician or other practitioner (as defined by the 
                Secretary) to the physician's or practitioner's own 
                patients as part of the physician's or practitioner's 
                professional service.''.
    (f) Exclusion Modifications.--Section 1862(a) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395y(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (O), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (P), by striking the semicolon 
                at the end and inserting ``, and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
            ``(Q) in the case of dental and oral health services (as 
        defined in section 1861(lll)) that are preventive and screening 
        services described in paragraph (2) of such section, which are 
        furnished more frequently than provided under section 
        1834(z)(3) or under circumstances other than circumstances 
        determined appropriate under subparagraph (C) of such 
        section;''; and
            (2) in paragraph (12), by inserting before the semicolon at 
        the end the following: ``and except that payment may be made 
        under part B for dental and oral health services that are 
        covered under section 1861(s)(2)(II) and for dentures under 
        section 1861(s)(8)''.
    (g) Certain Non-application.--
            (1) In general.--Paragraphs (1) and (4) of section 1839(a) 
        of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395r(a)) are amended by 
        adding at the end of each such paragraphs the following: ``In 
        applying this paragraph there shall not be taken into account 
        benefits and administrative costs attributable to the 
        amendments made by section 134401 (other than subsection (g)) 
        of An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of 
        S. Con. Res. 14 and the Government contribution under section 
        1844(a)(5)''.
            (2) Payment.--Section 1844(a) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
        1395w(a)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; plus'';
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(5) a Government contribution equal to the amount that is 
        estimated to be payable for benefits and related administrative 
        costs incurred that are attributable to the amendments made by 
        section 134401 (other than subsection (g)) of the An Act to 
        provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of S. Con. Res. 
        14.''; and
                    (C) in the flush matter at the end, by striking 
                ``paragraph (4)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (4) and 
                (5)''.
    (h) Implementation.--
            (1) Funding.--
                    (A) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
                available, the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
                (in this subsection referred to as the ``Secretary'') 
                shall provide for the transfer from the Federal 
                Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund under 
                section 1841 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
                1395t) to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
                Program Management Account of--
                            (i) $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
                        2022 through 2028 for purposes of implementing 
                        the amendments made by this section; and
                            (ii) such sums as determined appropriate by 
                        the Secretary for each subsequent fiscal year 
                        for purposes of administering the provisions of 
                        such amendments.
                    (B) Availability and additional use of funds.--
                Funds transferred pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall 
                remain available until expended and may be used, in 
                addition to the purpose specified in subparagraph 
                (A)(i), to implement the amendments made by sections 
                134402 and 134403.
            (2) Administration.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the Secretary may implement, by program instruction or 
        otherwise, any of the provisions of, or amendments made by, 
        this section.
            (3) Paperwork reduction act.--Chapter 35 of title 44, 
        United States Code, shall not apply to the provisions of, or 
        the amendments made by, this section.

SEC. 134402. PROVIDING COVERAGE FOR HEARING CARE UNDER THE MEDICARE 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Provision of Aural Rehabilitation and Treatment Services by 
Qualified Audiologists.--Section 1861(ll)(3) of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1395x(ll)(3)) is amended by inserting ``(and, beginning 
October 1, 2023, such aural rehabilitation and treatment services)'' 
after ``assessment services''.
    (b) Coverage of Hearing Aids.--
            (1) Inclusion of hearing aids as prosthetic devices.--
        Section 1861(s)(8) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
        1395x(s)(8)) is amended by inserting ``, and including hearing 
        aids (as described in section 1834(h)(7)) furnished on or after 
        October 1, 2023, to individuals diagnosed with profound or 
        severe hearing loss'' before the semicolon at the end.
            (2) Payment limitations for hearing aids.--Section 1834(h) 
        of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(h)), as amended by 
        section 134401(e)(2)(A), is further amended by adding at the 
        end the following new paragraph:
            ``(7) Limitations for hearing aids.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Payment may be made under this 
                part with respect to an individual, with respect to 
                hearing aids furnished on or after October 1, 2023--
                            ``(i) not more than once during a 5-year 
                        period;
                            ``(ii) only for types of such hearing aids 
                        that are not over-the-counter hearing aids (as 
                        defined in section 520(q)(1) of the Federal 
                        Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act) and that are 
                        determined appropriate by the Secretary; and
                            ``(iii) only if furnished pursuant to a 
                        written order of a physician or qualified 
                        audiologist (as defined in section 
                        1861(ll)(4)(B)).
                    ``(B) Limitation on judicial review.--There shall 
                be no administrative or judicial review under section 
                1869 or otherwise of--
                            ``(i) the determination of the types of 
                        hearing aids paid for under subparagraph 
                        (A)(ii); or
                            ``(ii) the determination of fee schedule 
                        rates for hearing aids described in this 
                        paragraph.''.
            (3) Application of competitive acquisition.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 1834(h)(1)(H) of the 
                Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(h)(1)(H)), as 
                amended by section 134401(e)(2)(B)(i), is further 
                amended--
                            (i) in the header, by inserting ``, hearing 
                        aids'' after ``dentures'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``, of hearing aids 
                        described in paragraph (2)(E) of such 
                        section,'' after ``paragraph (2)(D) of such 
                        section''; and
                            (iii) in clause (i), by inserting ``, such 
                        hearing aids'' after ``such dentures''.
                    (B) Conforming amendment.--
                            (i) In general.--Section 1847(a)(2) of the 
                        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-3(a)(2)), 
                        as amended by section 134401(e)(2)(B)(ii), is 
                        further amended by adding at the end the 
                        following new subparagraph:
                    ``(E) Hearing aids.--Hearing aids described in 
                section 1861(s)(8) for which payment would otherwise be 
                made under section 1834(h).''.
                            (ii) Exemption of certain items from 
                        competitive acquisition.--Section 1847(a)(7) of 
                        the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-
                        3(a)(7)), as amended by section 
                        134401(e)(2)(B)(iii), is further amended by 
                        adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
                    ``(D) Certain hearing aids.--Those items and 
                services described in paragraph (2)(E) if furnished by 
                a physician or other practitioner (as defined by the 
                Secretary) to the physician's or practitioner's own 
                patients as part of the physician's or practitioner's 
                professional service.''.
            (4) Inclusion of audiologists as certain practitioners to 
        receive payment on an assignment-related basis.--Section 
        1842(b)(18)(C) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
        1395u(b)(18)(C)), as amended by section 134401(d)(4), is 
        further amended by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(viii) Beginning October 1, 2023, a 
                        qualified audiologist (as defined in section 
                        1861(ll)(4)(B)).''.
    (c) Exclusion Modification.--Section 1862(a)(7) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395y(a)(7)) is amended by inserting ``(except 
such hearing aids or examinations therefor as described in and 
otherwise allowed under section 1861(s)(8))'' after ``hearing aids or 
examinations therefor''.
    (d) Certain Non-application.--
            (1) In general.--The last sentence of section 1839(a)(1) of 
        the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395r(a)(1)), as added by 
        section 134401(g)(1), is amended by striking ``section 134401 
        (other than subsection (g))'' and inserting ``sections 134401 
        (other than subsection (g)), 134402 (other than subsection 
        (d))''.
            (2) Payment.--Paragraph (4) of section 1844(a) of such Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1395w(a)), as added by section 134401(g)(2), is 
        amended by striking ``section 134401 (other than subsection 
        (g))'' and inserting ``sections 134401 (other than subsection 
        (g)), 134402 (other than subsection (d))''.
    (e) Implementation.--
            (1) Funding.--
                    (A) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
                available, the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
                (in this subsection referred to as the ``Secretary'') 
                shall provide for the transfer from the Federal 
                Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund under 
                section 1841 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
                1395t) to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
                Program Management Account of--
                            (i) $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
                        2022 through 2023 for purposes of implementing 
                        the amendments made by this section; and
                            (ii) such sums as determined appropriate by 
                        the Secretary for each subsequent fiscal year 
                        for purposes of administering the provisions of 
                        such amendments.
                    (B) Availability and additional use of funds.--
                Funds transferred pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall 
                remain available until expended and may be used, in 
                addition to the purpose specified in subparagraph 
                (A)(i), to implement the amendments made by sections 
                134401 and 134403.
            (2) Administration.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the Secretary may implement, by program instruction or 
        otherwise, any of the provisions of, or amendments made by, 
        this section.
            (3) Paperwork reduction act.--Chapter 35 of title 44, 
        United States Code, shall not apply to the provisions of, or 
        the amendments made by, this section.

SEC. 134403. PROVIDING COVERAGE FOR VISION CARE UNDER THE MEDICARE 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Coverage.--Section 1861(s)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1395x(s)(2)), as amended by section 134401(a), is further 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (HH), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (II), by striking the period at the end 
        and adding ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(JJ) vision services (as defined in subsection (mmm));''.
    (b) Vision Services Defined.--Section 1861 of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x), as amended by section 134401(b), is further 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(mmm) Vision Services.--The term `vision services' means--
            ``(1) routine eye examinations to determine the refractive 
        state of the eyes, including procedures performed during the 
        course of such examination; and
            ``(2) contact lens fitting services;
furnished on or after October 1, 2022, by or under the direct 
supervision of an ophthalmologist or optometrist who is legally 
authorized to furnish such examinations, procedures, or fitting 
services (as applicable) under State law (or the State regulatory 
mechanism provided by State law) of the State in which the 
examinations, procedures, or fitting services are furnished.''.
    (c) Payment Limitations.--Section 1834 of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1395m), as amended by section 134401(c)(2), is further 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(aa) Limitation for Vision Services.--With respect to vision 
services (as defined in section 1861(mmm)) and an individual, payment 
may be made under this part for only 1 routine eye examination 
described in paragraph (1) of such section and 1 contact lens fitting 
service described in paragraph (2) of such section during a 2-year 
period.''.
    (d) Payment Under Physician Fee Schedule.--Section 1848(j)(3) of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-4(j)(3)), as amended by 
section 134401(d)(1), is further amended by inserting ``(2)(JJ),'' 
before ``(3)''.
    (e) Coverage of Conventional Eyeglasses and Contact Lenses.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1861(s)(8) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(s)(8)), as amended by section 
        134402(b)(1), is further amended by striking ``, and including 
        one pair of conventional eyeglasses or contact lenses furnished 
        subsequent to each cataract surgery with insertion of an 
        intraocular lens'' and inserting ``, including one pair of 
        conventional eyeglasses or contact lenses furnished subsequent 
        to each cataract surgery with insertion of an intraocular lens, 
        if furnished before October 1, 2022, and including conventional 
        eyeglasses or contact lenses (as described in section 
        1834(h)(8)), whether or not furnished subsequent to such a 
        surgery, if furnished on or after October 1, 2022''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 1842(b)(11)(A) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395u(b)(11)(A)) is amended by 
        inserting ``furnished prior to October 1, 2022,'' after 
        ``relating to them,''.
    (f) Special Payment Rules for Eyeglasses and Contact Lenses.--
            (1) Limitations.--Section 1834(h) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(h)), as amended by section 134401(e)(2)(A) 
        and section 134402(b)(2), is further amended by adding at the 
        end the following new paragraph:
            ``(8) Payment limitations for eyeglasses and contact 
        lenses.--
                    ``(A) In general.--With respect to eyeglasses and 
                contact lenses furnished to an individual on or after 
                October 1, 2022, subject to subparagraph (B), payment 
                may be made under this part only--
                            ``(i) during a 2-year period, for either 1 
                        pair of eyeglasses (including lenses and 
                        frames) or not more than a 2-year supply of 
                        contact lenses;
                            ``(ii) with respect to amounts attributable 
                        to the lenses and frames of such a pair of 
                        eyeglasses or amounts attributable to such a 2-
                        year supply of contact lenses, in an amount not 
                        greater than--
                                    ``(I) for a pair of eyeglasses 
                                furnished in, or a 2-year supply of 
                                contact lenses beginning in, 2022--
                                            ``(aa) $85 for the lenses 
                                        of such pair of eyeglasses and 
                                        $85 for the frames of such pair 
                                        of eyeglasses; or
                                            ``(bb) $85 for such 2-year 
                                        supply of contact lenses; and
                                    ``(II) for the lenses and frames of 
                                a pair of eyeglasses furnished in, or a 
                                2-year supply of contact lenses 
                                beginning in, a subsequent year, the 
                                dollar amounts specified under this 
                                subparagraph for the previous year, 
                                increased by the percentage change in 
                                the consumer price index for all urban 
                                consumers (United States city average) 
                                for the 12-month period ending with 
                                June of the previous year;
                            ``(iii) if furnished pursuant to a written 
                        order of a physician described in section 
                        1861(lll); and
                            ``(iv) if during the 2-year period 
                        described in clause (i), the individual did not 
                        already receive (as described in subparagraph 
                        (B)) one pair of conventional eyeglasses or 
                        contact lenses subsequent to a cataract surgery 
                        with insertion of an intraocular lens furnished 
                        during such period.
                    ``(B) Exception.--With respect to a 2-year period 
                described in subparagraph (A)(i), in the case of an 
                individual who receives cataract surgery with insertion 
                of an intraocular lens, notwithstanding subparagraph 
                (A), payment may be made under this part for one pair 
                of conventional eyeglasses or contact lenses furnished 
                subsequent to such cataract surgery during such period.
                    ``(C) Limitation on judicial review.--There shall 
                be no administrative or judicial review under section 
                1869 or otherwise of--
                            ``(i) the determination of the types of 
                        eyeglasses and contact lenses covered under 
                        this paragraph; or
                            ``(ii) the determination of fee schedule 
                        rates under this subsection for eyeglasses and 
                        contact lenses.''.
            (2) Application of competitive acquisition.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 1834(h)(1)(H) of the 
                Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(h)(1)(H)), as 
                amended by section 134401(e)(2)(B)(i) and section 
                134402(b)(3)(A), is further amended--
                            (i) in the header by inserting ``, 
                        eyeglasses, and contact lenses'' after 
                        ``hearing aids'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``and of eyeglasses and 
                        contact lenses described in paragraph (2)(F) of 
                        such section,'' after ``paragraph (2)(E) of 
                        such section,''; and
                            (iii) in clause (i), by inserting ``, or 
                        such eyeglasses and contact lenses'' after 
                        ``such hearing aids''.
                    (B) Conforming amendment.--
                            (i) In general.--Section 1847(a)(2) of the 
                        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-3(a)(2)), 
                        as amended by section 134401(e)(2)(B)(ii) and 
                        section 134402(b)(3)(B)(i), is further amended 
                        by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
                    ``(F) Eyeglasses and contact lenses.--Eyeglasses 
                and contact lenses described in section 1861(s)(8) for 
                which payment would otherwise be made under section 
                1834(h).''.
                            (ii) Exemption of certain items from 
                        competitive acquisition.--Section 1847(a)(7) of 
                        the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-
                        3(a)(7)), as amended by section 
                        134401(e)(2)(B)(iii) and section 
                        134402(b)(3)(B)(ii), is further amended by 
                        adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
                    ``(E) Certain eyeglasses and contact lenses.--Those 
                items and services described in paragraph (2)(F) if 
                furnished by a physician or other practitioner (as 
                defined by the Secretary) to the physician's or 
                practitioner's own patients as part of the physician's 
                or practitioner's professional service.''.
    (g) Exclusion Modifications.--Section 1862(a) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395y(a)), as amended by section 134401(f), is 
further amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (P), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (Q), by striking the semicolon 
                at the end and inserting ``, and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
            ``(R) in the case of vision services (as defined in section 
        1861(mmm)) that are routine eye examinations and contact lens 
        fitting services (as described in paragraph (1) or (2), 
        respectively, of such section), which are furnished more 
        frequently than once during a 2-year period;''; and
            (2) in paragraph (7)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(other than such an examination 
                that is a vision service that is covered under section 
                1861(s)(2)(JJ))'' after ``eye examinations''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``(other than such a procedure 
                that is a vision service that is covered under section 
                1861(s)(2)(JJ))'' after ``refractive state of the 
                eyes''.
    (h) Certain Non-application.--
            (1) In general.--The last sentence of section 1839(a)(1) of 
        the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395r(a)(1)), as added by 
        section 134401(g)(1) and amended by section 134402(d)(1), is 
        further amended by inserting ``, and 134403 (other than 
        subsection (h))'' after ``134402 (other than subsection (d))''.
            (2) Payment.--Paragraph (4) of section 1844(a) of such Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1395w(a)), as added by section 134401(g)(2) and 
        amended by section 134402(d)(2), is further amended by 
        inserting ``, and 134403 (other than subsection (h))'' after 
        ``134402 (other than subsection (d))''.
    (i) Implementation.--
            (1) Funding.--
                    (A) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
                available, the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
                (in this subsection referred to as the ``Secretary'') 
                shall provide for the transfer from the Federal 
                Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund under 
                section 1841 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
                1395t) to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
                Program Management Account of--
                            (i) $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
                        2022 and 2023 for purposes of implementing the 
                        amendments made by this section; and
                            (ii) such sums as determined appropriate by 
                        the Secretary for each subsequent fiscal year 
                        for purposes of administering the provisions of 
                        such amendments.
                    (B) Availability and additional use of funds.--
                Funds transferred pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall 
                remain available until expended and may be used, in 
                addition to the purpose specified in subparagraph 
                (A)(i), to implement the amendments made by sections 
                134401 and 134402.
            (2) Administration.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the Secretary may implement, by program instruction or 
        otherwise, any of the provisions of, or amendments made by, 
        this section.
            (3) Paperwork reduction act.--Chapter 35 of title 44, 
        United States Code, shall not apply to the provisions of, or 
        the amendments made by, this section.
