---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Part 6 - Investments In Tribal Infrastructure

## SEC. 135601. TREATMENT OF INDIAN TRIBES AS STATES WITH RESPECT TO BOND 
              ISSUANCE.

    (a) In General.--Section 7871(c) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Special Rules for Tax-exempt Bonds.--
            ``(1) In general.--In applying section 146 to bonds issued 
        by Indian Tribal Governments the Secretary shall annually--
                    ``(A) establish a national bond volume cap based on 
                the greater of--
                            ``(i) the State population formula approach 
                        in section 146(d)(1)(A) (using national Tribal 
                        population estimates supplied annually by the 
                        Department of the Interior in consultation with 
                        the Census Bureau), and
                            ``(ii) the minimum State ceiling amount in 
                        section 146(d)(1)(B) (as adjusted in accordance 
                        with the cost of living provision in section 
                        146(d)(2)),
                    ``(B) allocate such national bond volume cap among 
                all Indian Tribal Governments seeking such an 
                allocation in a particular year under regulations 
                prescribed by the Secretary.
            ``(2) Application of geographic restriction.--In the case 
        of national bond volume cap allocated under paragraph (1), 
        section 146(k)(1) shall not apply to the extent that such cap 
        is used with respect to financing for a facility located on 
        qualified Indian lands.
            ``(3) Restriction on financing of certain gaming 
        facilities.--No portion of the volume cap allocated under this 
        subsection may be used with respect to the financing of any 
        portion of a building in which class II or class III gaming (as 
        defined in section 4 of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act) is 
        conducted or housed or any property actually used in the 
        conduct of such gaming.
            ``(4) Definitions and special rules.--For purposes of this 
        subsection--
                    ``(A) Indian tribal government.--The term `Indian 
                Tribal Government' means the governing body of an 
                Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or 
                community, or of Alaska Natives, which is recognized as 
                eligible for the special programs and services provided 
                by the United States to Indians because of their status 
                as Indians, and also includes any agencies, 
                instrumentalities or political subdivisions thereof.
                    ``(B) Intertribal consortiums, etc.--In any case in 
                which an Indian Tribal Government has authorized an 
                intertribal consortium, a Tribal organization, or an 
                Alaska Native regional or village corporation, as 
                defined in, or established pursuant to, the Alaska 
                Native Claims Settlement Act, to plan for, coordinate 
                or otherwise administer services, finances, functions, 
                or activities on its behalf under this subsection, the 
                authorized entity shall have the rights and 
                responsibilities of the authorizing Indian Tribal 
                Government only to the extent provided in the 
                Authorizing resolution.
                    ``(C) Qualified indian lands.--The term `qualified 
                Indian lands' shall mean an Indian reservation as 
                defined in section 3(d) of the Indian Financing Act of 
                1974 (25 U.S.C. 1452(d)), including lands which are 
                within the jurisdictional area of an Oklahoma Indian 
                Tribe (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior) 
                and shall include lands outside a reservation where the 
                facility is to be placed in service in connection 
                with--
                            ``(i) the active conduct of a trade or 
                        business by an Indian Tribe on, contiguous to, 
                        within reasonable proximity of, or with a 
                        substantial connection to, an Indian 
                        reservation or Alaska Native village, or
                            ``(ii) infrastructure (including roads, 
                        power lines, water systems, railroad spurs, and 
                        communication facilities) serving an Indian 
                        reservation or Alaska Native village.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subparagraph (B) of section 45(c)(9) is 
amended to read as follows:
                    ``(B) Indian tribe.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, the term `Indian tribe' has the meaning 
                given the term `Indian Tribal Government' by section 
                7871(c)(3)(A).''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to obligations issued in calendar years beginning after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 135602. NEW MARKETS TAX CREDIT FOR TRIBAL STATISTICAL AREAS.

    (a) Additional Allocations for Tribal Statistical Areas.--Section 
45D(f), as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended 
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Additional allocations for tribal statistical 
        areas.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of each calendar 
                year after 2021, there is (in addition to any 
                limitation under any other paragraph of this 
                subsection) a new markets tax credit limitation of 
                $175,000,000 which shall be allocated by the Secretary 
                as provided in paragraph (2) except that such 
                limitation may only be allocated with respect to Tribal 
                Statistical Areas.
                    ``(B) Carryover of unused tribal statistical area 
                limitation.--
                            ``(i) In general.--If the credit limitation 
                        under subparagraph (A) for any calendar year 
                        exceeds the amount of such limitation allocated 
                        by the Secretary for such calendar year, such 
                        limitation for the succeeding calendar year 
                        shall be increased by the amount of such 
                        excess.
                            ``(ii) Limitation on carryover.--No amount 
                        of credit limitation may be carried under 
                        clause (i) past the 5th calendar year following 
                        the calendar year in which such amount of 
                        credit limitation arose.
                            ``(iii) Transfer of expired tribal 
                        statistical area limitation to general 
                        limitation.--In the case of any amount of 
                        credit limitation which would (but for clause 
                        (ii)) be carried under clause (i) to the 6th 
                        calendar year following the calendar year in 
                        which such amount of credit limitation arose, 
                        the new market tax credit limitation under 
                        paragraph (1) for such 6th calendar year shall 
                        be increased by the amount of such credit 
                        limitation.
                    ``(C) Tribal statistical area.--For purposes of 
                this paragraph, the term `Tribal Statistical Area' 
                means--
                            ``(i) any low-income community which is 
                        located in any Tribal Census Tract, Oklahoma 
                        Tribal Statistical Area, Tribal-Designated 
                        Statistical Area, Alaska Native Village 
                        Statistical Area, or Hawaiian Home Land, and
                            ``(ii) any low-income community described 
                        in subsection (e)(1)(B).''.
    (b) Eligibility of Certain Projects Serving Tribal Members.--
Section 45D(e)(1) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) In general.--The term `low-income community' means 
        any area--
                    ``(A) comprising a population census tract if--
                            ``(i) the poverty rate for such tract is at 
                        least 20 percent, or
                            ``(ii)(I) in the case of a tract not 
                        located within a metropolitan area, the median 
                        family income for such tract does not exceed 80 
                        percent of statewide median family income, or
                            ``(II) in the case of a tract located 
                        within a metropolitan area, the median family 
                        income for such tract does not exceed 80 
                        percent of the greater of statewide median 
                        family income or the metropolitan area median 
                        family income,
                    ``(B) which is used for a qualified active low-
                income community business which--
                            ``(i) services a significant population of 
                        Tribal or Alaska Native Village members who are 
                        residents of a low-income community described 
                        in subsection (f)(5)(C)(i), and
                            ``(ii) obtains a written statement from the 
                        relevant Indian Tribal Government (within the 
                        meaning of section 7871(c)) that documents the 
                        eligibility such project with respect to the 
                        requirement of clause (i).
        Subparagraph (A)(ii) shall be applied using possession wide 
        median family income in the case of census tracts located 
        within a possession of the United States.''.
    (c) Application of Inflation Adjustment.--Section 45D(f)(4), as 
added by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by striking 
``the dollar amount paragraph (1)(H) shall be increased'' and inserting 
``the dollar amounts in paragraphs (1)(H) and (5)(A) shall each be 
increased''.
    (d) Coordination With Existing Carryover.--Section 45D(f)(3), as 
amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(3) Carryover of unused limitation.--If the new markets 
        tax credit limitation under paragraph (1) for any calendar year 
        exceeds the amount of such limitation allocated by the 
        Secretary under paragraph (2) for such year, such limitation 
        for the succeeding calendar year shall be increased by the 
        amount of such excess.''.
    (e) Regulatory Authority.--Section 45D(i) is amended by striking 
``and'' at the end of paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end 
of paragraph (6) and inserting ``, and'', and by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(7) which provide documentation requirements for the 
        written statement required under subsection (e)(1)(B)(ii), and
            ``(8) which provide procedures for determining which 
        projects under subsection (e)(1)(B) are qualified active low-
        income community businesses with respect to the populations 
        described in such subsection. Such procedures shall take into 
        account the location needs of such projects, especially with 
        respect to projects that serve multiple tribal or Alaska Native 
        Village communities.''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to new markets tax credit limitation determined for calendar 
years after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 135603. INCLUSION OF INDIAN AREAS AS DIFFICULT DEVELOPMENT AREAS 
              FOR PURPOSES OF CERTAIN BUILDINGS.

    (a) In General.--Subclause (I) of section 42(d)(5)(B)(iii), as 
amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by 
inserting ``, any Indian area'' after ``median gross income''.
    (b) Indian Area.--Clause (iii) of section 42(d)(5)(B), as amended 
by the preceding provisions of this Act is amended by redesignating 
subclause (III) as subclause (V) and by inserting after subclause (II) 
the following new subclauses:
                                    ``(III) Indian area.--For purposes 
                                of subclause (I), the term `Indian 
                                area' means any Indian area (as defined 
                                in section 4(11) of the Native American 
                                Housing Assistance and Self 
                                Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 
                                4103(11))).
                                    ``(IV) Special rule for buildings 
                                in indian areas.--In the case of an 
                                area which is a difficult development 
                                area solely because it is an Indian 
                                area, a building shall not be treated 
                                as located in such area unless such 
                                building is assisted or financed under 
                                the Native American Housing Assistance 
                                and Self Determination Act of 1996 (25 
                                U.S.C. 4101 et seq.) or the project 
                                sponsor is an Indian tribe (as defined 
                                in section 45A(c)(6)), a tribally 
                                designated housing entity (as defined 
                                in section 4(22) of such Act (25 U.S.C. 
                                4103(22))), or wholly owned or 
                                controlled by such an Indian tribe or 
                                tribally designated housing entity.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to buildings placed in service after December 31, 2021.

                 PART 7--INVESTMENTS IN THE TERRITORIES

SEC. 135701. POSSESSIONS ECONOMIC ACTIVITY CREDIT.

    (a) In General.--Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, 
as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 45V. POSSESSIONS ECONOMIC ACTIVITY CREDIT.

    ``(a) Allowance of Credit.--For purposes of section 38, in the case 
of a qualified domestic corporation the possessions economic activity 
credit determined under this section for a taxable year is an amount 
equal to 20 percent of the sum of the qualified possession wages and 
allocable employee fringe benefit expenses paid or incurred by the 
taxpayer for the taxable year.
    ``(b) Qualified Domestic Corporation; Qualified Corporation.--For 
purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `qualified domestic 
        corporation' means any domestic corporation which is--
                    ``(A) a qualified corporation, or
                    ``(B) a United States shareholder of a foreign 
                corporation which--
                            ``(i) is a qualified corporation, and
                            ``(ii) is wholly owned by the United States 
                        shareholder together with any corporations 
                        which are members of the same affiliated group 
                        (within the meaning of section 1504(a)) as such 
                        United States shareholder.
            ``(2) Qualified corporation.--The term `qualified 
        corporation' means any corporation if such corporation meets 
        the following requirements:
                    ``(A) Source qualification.--80 percent or more of 
                the gross income of the corporation for the 3-year 
                period immediately preceding the close of the taxable 
                year (or for such part of such period immediately 
                preceding the close of such taxable year as may be 
                applicable) was derived from sources within a 
                possession of the United States (determined without 
                regard to section 904(f)).
                    ``(B) Trade or business qualification.--75 percent 
                or more of the gross income of the corporation for such 
                period or such part thereof was derived from the active 
                conduct of a trade or business within a possession of 
                the United States.
            ``(3) Special rule for separate and clearly identified 
        units of foreign corporations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of a United States 
                shareholder of a foreign corporation which--
                            ``(i) is not a qualified corporation but 
                        with respect to which the ownership 
                        requirements of paragraph (1)(B)(ii) are met, 
                        and
                            ``(ii) has an eligible foreign business 
                        unit which, if such unit were a corporation, 
                        would be a qualified corporation with respect 
                        to which such ownership requirements would be 
                        met,
                then, for purposes of this section, the United States 
                shareholder may elect to treat such unit as a separate 
                foreign corporation which meets the requirements of 
                paragraph (1)(B) and with respect to which such 
                shareholder is a United States shareholder.
                    ``(B) Eligible foreign business unit.--For purposes 
                of this paragraph, the term `eligible foreign business 
                unit' means a separate and clearly identified foreign 
                unit of a trade or business, including a partnership or 
                an entity treated as disregarded as a separate entity 
                from its owner (under section 7701 or other provision 
                under this title), which maintains separate books and 
                records.
                    ``(C) Special election for affiliated groups.--In 
                the case of an affiliated group described in paragraph 
                (1)(B)(ii), the election under subparagraph (A) with 
                respect to any eligible foreign business unit shall be 
                made by the common parent of such group and shall apply 
                uniformly to all members of such group which are United 
                States shareholders with respect to the foreign 
                corporation which has such unit.
    ``(c) Qualified Possession Wages.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `qualified possession wages' 
        means wages paid or incurred by the qualified corporation 
        during the taxable year in connection with the active conduct 
        of a trade or business within a possession of the United States 
        to any employee for services performed in such possession, but 
        only if such services are performed while the principal place 
        of employment of such employee is within such possession.
            ``(2) Limitation on amount of wages taken into account.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The amount of wages which may be 
                taken into account under paragraph (1) with respect to 
                any employee for any taxable year shall not exceed 
                $50,000.
                    ``(B) Treatment of part-time employees, etc.--If--
                            ``(i) any employee is not employed by the 
                        qualified corporation on a substantially full-
                        time basis at all times during the taxable 
                        year, or
                            ``(ii) the principal place of employment of 
                        any employee with the qualified corporation is 
                        not within a possession at all times during the 
                        taxable year,
                the limitation applicable under paragraph (1) with 
                respect to such employee shall be the appropriate 
                portion (as determined by the Secretary) of the 
                limitation which would otherwise be in effect under 
                paragraph (1).
                    ``(C) Wages.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), the term `wages' has the meaning 
                        given to such term by subsection (b) of section 
                        3306 (determined without regard to any dollar 
                        limitation contained in such section). For 
                        purposes of the preceding sentence, such 
                        subsection (b) shall be applied as if the term 
                        `United States' included all possessions of the 
                        United States.
                            ``(ii) Special rule for agricultural labor 
                        and railway labor.--In any case to which 
                        subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1) of 
                        section 51(h) applies, the term `wages' has the 
                        meaning given to such term by section 51(h)(2).
            ``(3) Allocable employee fringe benefit expenses.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The allocable employee fringe 
                benefit expenses of any qualified corporation for any 
                taxable year is an amount which bears the same ratio to 
                the amount determined under subparagraph (B) for such 
                taxable year as--
                            ``(i) the aggregate amount of the qualified 
                        corporation's qualified possession wages for 
                        such taxable year, bears to
                            ``(ii) the aggregate amount of the wages 
                        paid or incurred by such qualified corporation 
                        during such taxable year.
                In no event shall the amount determined under the 
                preceding sentence exceed 15 percent of the amount 
                referred to in clause (i).
                    ``(B) Expenses taken into account.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A), the amount determined under this 
                subparagraph for any taxable year is the aggregate 
                amount allowable (or, in the case of a foreign 
                corporation, which would be allowable if such foreign 
                corporation were a domestic corporation) as a deduction 
                under this chapter to the qualified corporation for 
                such taxable year with respect to--
                            ``(i) employer contributions under a stock 
                        bonus, pension, profit-sharing, or annuity 
                        plan,
                            ``(ii) employer-provided coverage under any 
                        accident or health plan for employees, and
                            ``(iii) the cost of life or disability 
                        insurance provided to employees.
                Any amount treated as wages under paragraph (2)(C) 
                shall not be taken into account under this 
                subparagraph.
    ``(d) Special Rule for Qualified Small Domestic Corporation.--For 
purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Increased credit percentage.--In the case of a 
        qualified small domestic corporation, subsection (a) shall be 
        applied by substituting `50 percent' for `20 percent'.
            ``(2) Qualified small domestic corporation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `qualified small 
                domestic corporation' means a qualified domestic 
                corporation that meets the requirements of 
                subparagraphs (B) and (C).
                    ``(B) Full-time employment.--A qualified domestic 
                corporation meets the requirements of this subparagraph 
                if the qualified corporation which is the qualified 
                domestic corporation under subsection (b)(1)(A) or the 
                foreign corporation under subsection (b)(1)(B)(i)--
                            ``(i) has at least 5 full-time employees in 
                        a possession of the United States for each year 
                        in the 3-year period immediately preceding the 
                        close of the taxable year (or for such part of 
                        such period immediately preceding the close of 
                        such taxable year as may be applicable), and
                            ``(ii) has not more than a total of 30 
                        full-time employees for each year in such 3-
                        year period.
                    ``(C) Gross receipts.--A qualified domestic 
                corporation meets the requirements of this subparagraph 
                if the annual gross receipts of the qualified domestic 
                corporation (and all persons related thereto) for each 
                year in such 3-year period is not more than 
                $50,000,000.
            ``(3) Related persons.--In determining whether the 
        limitations under subparagraphs (B)(ii) and (C) of paragraph 
        (2) are met, all persons who are treated as related to the 
        qualified domestic corporation for purposes of subsection (a) 
        or (b) of section 52 shall be taken into account.
            ``(4) Amount of wages taken into account.--Subsection 
        (c)(2)(A) shall be applied by substituting `$139,500' for 
        `$50,000'.
    ``(e) Possession of the United States.--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `possession of the United 
        States' means American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
        Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, and the 
        Virgin Islands.
            ``(2) Mirror code possessions.--In the case of any 
        possession of the United States with a mirror code tax system 
        (as defined in section 24(k)), this section shall not be 
        treated as part of the income tax laws of the United States for 
        purposes of determining the income tax law of such possession 
        unless such possession elects to have this section be so 
        treated.
    ``(f) Separate Application to Each Possession.--For purposes of 
determining the amount of the credit allowed under this section, this 
section shall be applied separately with respect to each possession of 
the United States.
    ``(g) Termination.--No credit shall be allowed under this section 
for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2031.''.
    (b) Credit Made Part of General Business Credit.--Subsection (b) of 
section 38, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is 
amended by striking ``plus'' at the end of paragraph (35), by striking 
the period at the end of paragraph (36) and inserting ``, plus'', and 
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(37) the possessions economic activity credit determined 
        under section 45V.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subpart B of 
part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``Sec. 45V. Possessions Economic Activity Credit.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, and in the case of a qualified corporation that is a foreign 
corporation, to taxable years beginning after the date of enactment and 
to taxable years of United States shareholders in which or with which 
such taxable years of foreign corporations end.

SEC. 135702. ADDITIONAL NEW MARKETS TAX CREDIT ALLOCATIONS FOR THE 
              TERRITORIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 45D(f), as amended by the preceding 
provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph:
            ``(6) Additional allocations for possessions of the united 
        states.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of each calendar 
                year after 2021, there is (in addition to the 
                limitation under paragraph (1)--
                            ``(i) a new markets tax credit limitation 
                        of $80,000,000 which shall be allocated by the 
                        Secretary as provided in paragraph (2) except 
                        that such limitation may only be allocated with 
                        respect to low-income communities located in 
                        Puerto Rico, and
                            ``(ii) a new markets tax credit limitation 
                        of $20,000,000 which shall be allocated by the 
                        Secretary as provided in paragraph (2) except 
                        that such limitation may only be allocated with 
                        respect to low-income communities located in 
                        possessions of the United States other than 
                        Puerto Rico.
                    ``(B) Carryover of unused limitation.--
                            ``(i) In general.--If the credit limitation 
                        under clause (i) or clause (ii) of subparagraph 
                        (A) for any calendar year exceeds the amount of 
                        such limitation allocated by the Secretary for 
                        such calendar year, such limitation for the 
                        succeeding calendar year shall be increased by 
                        the amount of such excess.
                            ``(ii) Limitation on carryover.--No amount 
                        of credit limitation may be carried under 
                        clause (i) past the 5th calendar year following 
                        the calendar year in which such amount of 
                        credit limitation arose.
                            ``(iii) Transfer of expired possession 
                        limitation to general limitation.--In the case 
                        of any amount of credit limitation which would 
                        (but for clause (ii)) be carried under clause 
                        (i) to the 6th calendar year following the 
                        calendar year in which such amount of credit 
                        limitation arose, the new market tax credit 
                        limitation under paragraph (1) for such 6th 
                        calendar year shall be increased by the amount 
                        of such credit limitation.''.
    (b) Application of Inflation Adjustment.--Section 45D(f)(4), as 
added and amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended 
by striking ``paragraphs (1)(H) and (5)(A)'' and inserting ``paragraphs 
(1)(H), (5)(A), (6)(A)(i), and (6)(A)(ii)''.
    (c) Effective Dates.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to new markets tax credit limitation determined for calendar 
years after December 31, 2021.
