---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Part 7 - Investments In The Territories

SEC. 135701. POSSESSIONS ECONOMIC ACTIVITY CREDIT.

    (a) In General.--Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, 
as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 45V. POSSESSIONS ECONOMIC ACTIVITY CREDIT.

    ``(a) Allowance of Credit.--For purposes of section 38, in the case 
of a qualified domestic corporation the possessions economic activity 
credit determined under this section for a taxable year is an amount 
equal to 20 percent of the sum of the qualified possession wages and 
allocable employee fringe benefit expenses paid or incurred by the 
taxpayer for the taxable year.
    ``(b) Qualified Domestic Corporation; Qualified Corporation.--For 
purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `qualified domestic 
        corporation' means any domestic corporation which is--
                    ``(A) a qualified corporation, or
                    ``(B) a United States shareholder of a foreign 
                corporation which--
                            ``(i) is a qualified corporation, and
                            ``(ii) is wholly owned by the United States 
                        shareholder together with any corporations 
                        which are members of the same affiliated group 
                        (within the meaning of section 1504(a)) as such 
                        United States shareholder.
            ``(2) Qualified corporation.--The term `qualified 
        corporation' means any corporation if such corporation meets 
        the following requirements:
                    ``(A) Source qualification.--80 percent or more of 
                the gross income of the corporation for the 3-year 
                period immediately preceding the close of the taxable 
                year (or for such part of such period immediately 
                preceding the close of such taxable year as may be 
                applicable) was derived from sources within a 
                possession of the United States (determined without 
                regard to section 904(f)).
                    ``(B) Trade or business qualification.--75 percent 
                or more of the gross income of the corporation for such 
                period or such part thereof was derived from the active 
                conduct of a trade or business within a possession of 
                the United States.
            ``(3) Special rule for separate and clearly identified 
        units of foreign corporations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of a United States 
                shareholder of a foreign corporation which--
                            ``(i) is not a qualified corporation but 
                        with respect to which the ownership 
                        requirements of paragraph (1)(B)(ii) are met, 
                        and
                            ``(ii) has an eligible foreign business 
                        unit which, if such unit were a corporation, 
                        would be a qualified corporation with respect 
                        to which such ownership requirements would be 
                        met,
                then, for purposes of this section, the United States 
                shareholder may elect to treat such unit as a separate 
                foreign corporation which meets the requirements of 
                paragraph (1)(B) and with respect to which such 
                shareholder is a United States shareholder.
                    ``(B) Eligible foreign business unit.--For purposes 
                of this paragraph, the term `eligible foreign business 
                unit' means a separate and clearly identified foreign 
                unit of a trade or business, including a partnership or 
                an entity treated as disregarded as a separate entity 
                from its owner (under section 7701 or other provision 
                under this title), which maintains separate books and 
                records.
                    ``(C) Special election for affiliated groups.--In 
                the case of an affiliated group described in paragraph 
                (1)(B)(ii), the election under subparagraph (A) with 
                respect to any eligible foreign business unit shall be 
                made by the common parent of such group and shall apply 
                uniformly to all members of such group which are United 
                States shareholders with respect to the foreign 
                corporation which has such unit.
    ``(c) Qualified Possession Wages.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `qualified possession wages' 
        means wages paid or incurred by the qualified corporation 
        during the taxable year in connection with the active conduct 
        of a trade or business within a possession of the United States 
        to any employee for services performed in such possession, but 
        only if such services are performed while the principal place 
        of employment of such employee is within such possession.
            ``(2) Limitation on amount of wages taken into account.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The amount of wages which may be 
                taken into account under paragraph (1) with respect to 
                any employee for any taxable year shall not exceed 
                $50,000.
                    ``(B) Treatment of part-time employees, etc.--If--
                            ``(i) any employee is not employed by the 
                        qualified corporation on a substantially full-
                        time basis at all times during the taxable 
                        year, or
                            ``(ii) the principal place of employment of 
                        any employee with the qualified corporation is 
                        not within a possession at all times during the 
                        taxable year,
                the limitation applicable under paragraph (1) with 
                respect to such employee shall be the appropriate 
                portion (as determined by the Secretary) of the 
                limitation which would otherwise be in effect under 
                paragraph (1).
                    ``(C) Wages.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), the term `wages' has the meaning 
                        given to such term by subsection (b) of section 
                        3306 (determined without regard to any dollar 
                        limitation contained in such section). For 
                        purposes of the preceding sentence, such 
                        subsection (b) shall be applied as if the term 
                        `United States' included all possessions of the 
                        United States.
                            ``(ii) Special rule for agricultural labor 
                        and railway labor.--In any case to which 
                        subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1) of 
                        section 51(h) applies, the term `wages' has the 
                        meaning given to such term by section 51(h)(2).
            ``(3) Allocable employee fringe benefit expenses.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The allocable employee fringe 
                benefit expenses of any qualified corporation for any 
                taxable year is an amount which bears the same ratio to 
                the amount determined under subparagraph (B) for such 
                taxable year as--
                            ``(i) the aggregate amount of the qualified 
                        corporation's qualified possession wages for 
                        such taxable year, bears to
                            ``(ii) the aggregate amount of the wages 
                        paid or incurred by such qualified corporation 
                        during such taxable year.
                In no event shall the amount determined under the 
                preceding sentence exceed 15 percent of the amount 
                referred to in clause (i).
                    ``(B) Expenses taken into account.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A), the amount determined under this 
                subparagraph for any taxable year is the aggregate 
                amount allowable (or, in the case of a foreign 
                corporation, which would be allowable if such foreign 
                corporation were a domestic corporation) as a deduction 
                under this chapter to the qualified corporation for 
                such taxable year with respect to--
                            ``(i) employer contributions under a stock 
                        bonus, pension, profit-sharing, or annuity 
                        plan,
                            ``(ii) employer-provided coverage under any 
                        accident or health plan for employees, and
                            ``(iii) the cost of life or disability 
                        insurance provided to employees.
                Any amount treated as wages under paragraph (2)(C) 
                shall not be taken into account under this 
                subparagraph.
    ``(d) Special Rule for Qualified Small Domestic Corporation.--For 
purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Increased credit percentage.--In the case of a 
        qualified small domestic corporation, subsection (a) shall be 
        applied by substituting `50 percent' for `20 percent'.
            ``(2) Qualified small domestic corporation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `qualified small 
                domestic corporation' means a qualified domestic 
                corporation that meets the requirements of 
                subparagraphs (B) and (C).
                    ``(B) Full-time employment.--A qualified domestic 
                corporation meets the requirements of this subparagraph 
                if the qualified corporation which is the qualified 
                domestic corporation under subsection (b)(1)(A) or the 
                foreign corporation under subsection (b)(1)(B)(i)--
                            ``(i) has at least 5 full-time employees in 
                        a possession of the United States for each year 
                        in the 3-year period immediately preceding the 
                        close of the taxable year (or for such part of 
                        such period immediately preceding the close of 
                        such taxable year as may be applicable), and
                            ``(ii) has not more than a total of 30 
                        full-time employees for each year in such 3-
                        year period.
                    ``(C) Gross receipts.--A qualified domestic 
                corporation meets the requirements of this subparagraph 
                if the annual gross receipts of the qualified domestic 
                corporation (and all persons related thereto) for each 
                year in such 3-year period is not more than 
                $50,000,000.
            ``(3) Related persons.--In determining whether the 
        limitations under subparagraphs (B)(ii) and (C) of paragraph 
        (2) are met, all persons who are treated as related to the 
        qualified domestic corporation for purposes of subsection (a) 
        or (b) of section 52 shall be taken into account.
            ``(4) Amount of wages taken into account.--Subsection 
        (c)(2)(A) shall be applied by substituting `$139,500' for 
        `$50,000'.
    ``(e) Possession of the United States.--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `possession of the United 
        States' means American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
        Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, and the 
        Virgin Islands.
            ``(2) Mirror code possessions.--In the case of any 
        possession of the United States with a mirror code tax system 
        (as defined in section 24(k)), this section shall not be 
        treated as part of the income tax laws of the United States for 
        purposes of determining the income tax law of such possession 
        unless such possession elects to have this section be so 
        treated.
    ``(f) Separate Application to Each Possession.--For purposes of 
determining the amount of the credit allowed under this section, this 
section shall be applied separately with respect to each possession of 
the United States.
    ``(g) Termination.--No credit shall be allowed under this section 
for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2031.''.
    (b) Credit Made Part of General Business Credit.--Subsection (b) of 
section 38, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is 
amended by striking ``plus'' at the end of paragraph (35), by striking 
the period at the end of paragraph (36) and inserting ``, plus'', and 
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(37) the possessions economic activity credit determined 
        under section 45V.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subpart B of 
part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``Sec. 45V. Possessions Economic Activity Credit.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, and in the case of a qualified corporation that is a foreign 
corporation, to taxable years beginning after the date of enactment and 
to taxable years of United States shareholders in which or with which 
such taxable years of foreign corporations end.

SEC. 135702. ADDITIONAL NEW MARKETS TAX CREDIT ALLOCATIONS FOR THE 
              TERRITORIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 45D(f), as amended by the preceding 
provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph:
            ``(6) Additional allocations for possessions of the united 
        states.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of each calendar 
                year after 2021, there is (in addition to the 
                limitation under paragraph (1)--
                            ``(i) a new markets tax credit limitation 
                        of $80,000,000 which shall be allocated by the 
                        Secretary as provided in paragraph (2) except 
                        that such limitation may only be allocated with 
                        respect to low-income communities located in 
                        Puerto Rico, and
                            ``(ii) a new markets tax credit limitation 
                        of $20,000,000 which shall be allocated by the 
                        Secretary as provided in paragraph (2) except 
                        that such limitation may only be allocated with 
                        respect to low-income communities located in 
                        possessions of the United States other than 
                        Puerto Rico.
                    ``(B) Carryover of unused limitation.--
                            ``(i) In general.--If the credit limitation 
                        under clause (i) or clause (ii) of subparagraph 
                        (A) for any calendar year exceeds the amount of 
                        such limitation allocated by the Secretary for 
                        such calendar year, such limitation for the 
                        succeeding calendar year shall be increased by 
                        the amount of such excess.
                            ``(ii) Limitation on carryover.--No amount 
                        of credit limitation may be carried under 
                        clause (i) past the 5th calendar year following 
                        the calendar year in which such amount of 
                        credit limitation arose.
                            ``(iii) Transfer of expired possession 
                        limitation to general limitation.--In the case 
                        of any amount of credit limitation which would 
                        (but for clause (ii)) be carried under clause 
                        (i) to the 6th calendar year following the 
                        calendar year in which such amount of credit 
                        limitation arose, the new market tax credit 
                        limitation under paragraph (1) for such 6th 
                        calendar year shall be increased by the amount 
                        of such credit limitation.''.
    (b) Application of Inflation Adjustment.--Section 45D(f)(4), as 
added and amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended 
by striking ``paragraphs (1)(H) and (5)(A)'' and inserting ``paragraphs 
(1)(H), (5)(A), (6)(A)(i), and (6)(A)(ii)''.
    (c) Effective Dates.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to new markets tax credit limitation determined for calendar 
years after December 31, 2021.
