---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Part 4 - Disaster And Resiliency

## SEC. 135401. EXCLUSION OF AMOUNTS RECEIVED FROM STATE-BASED CATASTROPHE 
              LOSS MITIGATION PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Section 139 is amended by redesignating subsection 
(h) as subsection (i) and by inserting after subsection (g) the 
following new subsection:
    ``(h) State-Based Catastrophe Loss Mitigation Programs.--
            ``(1) In general.--Gross income shall not include any 
        amount received by an individual as a qualified catastrophe 
        mitigation payment under a program established by a State, or a 
        political subdivision or instrumentality thereof, for the 
        purpose of making such payments.
            ``(2) Qualified catastrophe mitigation payment.--For 
        purposes of this section, the term `qualified catastrophe 
        mitigation payment' means any amount which is received by an 
        individual to make improvements to such individual's residence 
        for the sole purpose of reducing the damage that would be done 
        to such residence by a windstorm, earthquake, or wildfire.
            ``(3) No increase in basis.--Rules similar to the rules of 
        subsection (g)(3) shall apply in the case of this 
        subsection.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 139(d) is amended by striking ``and qualified'' 
        and inserting ``, qualified catastrophe mitigation payments, 
        and qualified''.
            (2) Section 139(i) (as redesignated by subsection (a)) is 
        amended by striking ``or qualified'' and inserting ``, 
        qualified catastrophe mitigation payment, or qualified''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020.

SEC. 135402. REPEAL OF TEMPORARY LIMITATION ON PERSONAL CASUALTY 
              LOSSES.

    (a) In General.--Section 165(h) is amended by striking paragraph 
(5).
    (b) Extension of Period of Limitation on Filing Claim in Certain 
Circumstances.--In the case of a claim for credit or refund which is 
properly allocable to a loss which is--
            (1) deductible under section 165(a) of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986,
            (2) described in Revenue Procedure 2017-60 (as modified by 
        Revenue Procedure 2018-14), and
            (3) claimed for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 
        2016,
the period of limitation prescribed in section 6511 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 for the filing of such claim shall be treated as 
not expiring earlier than the date that is 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to losses incurred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 
2017.
    (d) Regulations.--The Secretary of the Treasury (or the Secretary's 
delegate) shall issue such regulations or other guidance as are 
necessary to implement the amendment made by this section, including 
regulations or guidance consistent with Revenue Procedure 2017-60 (as 
so modified).

SEC. 135403. CREDIT FOR QUALIFIED WILDFIRE MITIGATION EXPENDITURES.

    (a) In General.--Subpart B of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 
is amended by inserting after section 27 the following new section:

``SEC. 28. QUALIFIED WILDFIRE MITIGATION EXPENDITURES.

    ``(a) In General.--There shall be allowed as a credit against the 
tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable year an amount equal to 30 
percent of the qualified wildfire mitigation expenditures paid or 
incurred by the taxpayer during such taxable year with respect to real 
property owned or leased by the taxpayer.
    ``(b) Qualified Wildfire Mitigation Expenditures.--For purposes of 
this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `qualified wildfire mitigation 
        expenditures' means any specified wildfire mitigation 
        expenditure made pursuant to a qualified State wildfire 
        mitigation program of a State which requires expenditures for 
        wildfire mitigation to be paid both by the taxpayer and such 
        State. Such term shall not include any item of expenditure 
        unless the ratio of the State's expenditure for such item to 
        the sum of the State's and taxpayer's expenditures for such 
        item is not less than 25 percent.
            ``(2) Specified wildfire mitigation expenditure.--The term 
        `specified wildfire mitigation expenditure' means, with respect 
        to any real property owned or leased by the taxpayer, any 
        amount paid or incurred to reduce the risk of wildfire by 
        removing accumulations of vegetation (including establishing, 
        expanding, or maintaining fuel breaks to serve as fire breaks) 
        on such real property.
            ``(3) Qualified state wildfire mitigation program.--The 
        term `qualified State wildfire mitigation program' means any 
        program of a State the primary purpose of which is to mitigate 
        the risk of wildfires in such State.
            ``(4) Treatment of reimbursements.--Any amount originally 
        paid or incurred by the taxpayer which is reimbursed by a State 
        under a qualified wildfire mitigation program of such State 
        shall be treated as paid by such State (and not by such 
        taxpayer).
    ``(c) Application With Other Credits.--
            ``(1) Business credit treated as part of general business 
        credit.--So much of the credit which would be allowed under 
        subsection (a) for any taxable year (determined without regard 
        to this subsection) that is attributable to expenditures made 
        in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or business (or, 
        in the case of expenditures made by a State, would have been 
        expenditures made in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's 
        trade or business if made by the taxpayer) shall be treated as 
        a credit listed in section 38(b) for taxable year (and not 
        allowed under subsection (a)).
            ``(2) Personal credit.--For purposes of this title, the 
        credit allowed under subsection (a) for any taxable year 
        (determined after application of paragraph (1)) shall be 
        treated as a credit allowable under subpart A for such taxable 
        year.
    ``(d) Reduction of Credit Percentage Where Taxpayer Expenditures 
Less Than 30 Percent.--
            ``(1) In general.--If the expenditure percentage with 
        respect to any item of qualified wildfire mitigation 
        expenditure is less than 30 percent, subsection (a) shall be 
        applied by substituting `the expenditure percentage' for `30 
        percent' with respect to such item of expenditure.
            ``(2) Expenditure percentage.--For purposes of this 
        section, the term `expenditure percentage' means, with respect 
        to any item of qualified wildfire mitigation expenditure any 
        portion of which is paid or incurred by a State, the ratio 
        (expressed as a percentage) of--
                    ``(A) the taxpayer's expenditure for such item, 
                divided by
                    ``(B) the sum of the taxpayer's and such State's 
                expenditures for such item.
    ``(e) Special Rules.--
            ``(1) Treatment of expenditures related to marketable 
        timber.--An expenditure shall not be taken into account for 
        purposes of this section (whether made by the taxpayer or a 
        State pursuant to a qualified State wildfire mitigation program 
        of such State) if such expenditure is properly allocable to 
        timber which is sold or exchanged by the taxpayer. The 
        preceding sentence shall not apply to the extent that such 
        amount exceeds the gain on such sale or exchange.
            ``(2) Basis reduction.--For purposes of this subtitle, if 
        the basis of any property would (but for this paragraph) be 
        determined by taking into account any qualified wildfire 
        mitigation expenditure, the basis of such property shall be 
        reduced by the amount of the credit allowed under subsection 
        (a) with respect to such expenditure (determined without regard 
        to subsection (c)).
            ``(3) Denial of double benefit.--The amount of any 
        deduction or other credit allowable under this chapter for any 
        expenditure for which a credit is allowable under subsection 
        (a) shall be reduced by the amount of credit allowed under such 
        subsection for such expenditure (determined without regard to 
        subsection (c)).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 38(b), as amended by the preceding provisions 
        of this Act, is amended by striking ``plus'' at the end of 
        paragraph (33), by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
        (34) and inserting ``, plus'', and by adding at the end the 
        following new paragraph:
            ``(35) the portion of the qualified wildfire mitigation 
        expenditures credit to which section 28(c)(1) applies.''.
            (2) Section 1016(a) is amended by redesignating paragraphs 
        (35) through (38) as paragraphs (36) through (39), 
        respectively, and by inserting after paragraph (34) the 
        following new paragraph:
            ``(35) to the extent provided in section 28(e)(2),''.
            (3) The table of sections for subpart B of part IV of 
        subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 27 the following new item:

``Sec. 28. Qualified wildfire mitigation expenditures.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to expenditures paid or incurred after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, in taxable years ending after such date.
