---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Subtitle B - Hazardous Materials

SEC. 30201. SUPERFUND INVESTMENTS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $10,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
response actions carried out by Federal agencies, consistent with 
section 120 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, 
and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620) at Federal facilities 
included on the National Priority List published pursuant to section 
105 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 9605), which shall supplement, not supplant, 
individual agency appropriations for such response actions.

SEC. 30202. FUNDING TO ADDRESS TOXICS IN SCHOOLS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$50,000,000, to remain available until expended, for grants, contracts, 
and other activities to reduce pollution at schools in low-income and 
disadvantaged communities under title V of the Toxic Substances Control 
Act (15 U.S.C. 2695 et seq.).

SEC. 30203. GRANTS TO REDUCE WASTE IN COMMUNITIES.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $750,000,000, to remain available until 
expended (except that no funds shall be disbursed after September 30, 
2031), to make grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible recipients 
to--
            (1) minimize the amount of waste generated from 
        manufacturing processes or when consumer products are disposed 
        of, including by encouraging product or manufacturing redesign 
        or redevelopment that reduces packaging and waste byproducts;
            (2) construct, expand, or modernize infrastructure for 
        organics recycling and reuse, including any facility, 
        machinery, or equipment used to collect and process organic 
        material;
            (3) create market demand or manufacturing capacity for 
        recovered, recyclable, or recycled commodities and products;
            (4) support projects and programs that reduce food waste; 
        or
            (5) support the development and implementation of 
        activities that reduce the amount of waste disposed of in 
        landfills, including--
                    (A) expanding the availability of curbside organic 
                waste collection;
                    (B) encouraging diversion of organic waste from 
                landfills; or
                    (C) increasing fees imposed on the disposal of 
                waste, including organic waste, at landfills.
    (b) Reservation.--Of the funds made available under this section, 
the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall reserve 
$300,000,000 for grants for projects in low-income or disadvantaged 
communities.
    (c) Administration of Funds.--Of the funds made available under 
this section, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
shall reserve 2 percent for administrative costs to carry out this 
section.
    (d) Definition of Eligible Recipient.--In this section, the term 
``eligible recipient'' means--
            (1) a single unit of State, local, or Tribal government;
            (2) a partnership of multiple units of State, local, or 
        Tribal governments;
            (3) a partnership of one or more units of State, local, or 
        Tribal governments and one or more for-profit or nonprofit 
        organizations; or
            (4) a nonprofit organization or a partnership of nonprofit 
        organizations.

SEC. 30204. ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE JUSTICE BLOCK GRANTS.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000,000, to remain 
available until expended (except that no funds shall be disbursed after 
September 30, 2031), to carry out this section.
    (b) Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator of the Environmental 
        Protection Agency may use amounts made available under 
        subsection (a) to award grants for periods of up to 3 years to 
        eligible entities to carry out activities described in 
        paragraph (2) that benefit disadvantaged communities, as 
        defined by the Administrator.
            (2) Eligible activities.--An eligible entity may use a 
        grant awarded under this subsection for--
                    (A) investments in community low-emission, zero-
                emission, and emission-reducing infrastructure, 
                including construction of such infrastructure;
                    (B) climate resiliency, mitigation, and adaptation 
                projects, including projects related to urban heat 
                islands, extreme heat, wood heater emissions, and 
                wildfire events;
                    (C) community-led pollution monitoring, prevention, 
                and remediation, including any necessary job training 
                programs;
                    (D) reducing indoor toxics and indoor air 
                pollution;
                    (E) facilitating engagement of disadvantaged 
                communities in State and Federal public processes, 
                including facilitating such engagement in advisory 
                groups, workshops, and rulemakings; or
                    (F) any other activity the Administrator of the 
                Environmental Protection Agency determines appropriate.
            (3) Eligible entities.--In this subsection, the term 
        ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a partnership between an Indian Tribe, a local 
                government, or an institution of higher education and a 
                community-based nonprofit organization;
                    (B) a community-based nonprofit organization; or
                    (C) a partnership of community-based nonprofit 
                organizations.
            (4) Priority.--In awarding grants under this subsection, 
        the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall 
        give priority to eligible entities described in subparagraph 
        (B) or (C) of paragraph (3).
    (c) Technical Assistance.--The Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency shall reserve $500,000,000 of the amounts made 
available under subsection (a) for grants or contracts for technical 
assistance throughout the United States related to grants awarded in 
this section.
