---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Subtitle C - Drinking Water

SEC. 30301. LEAD SERVICE LINE REPLACEMENT.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $30,000,000,000, to make capitalization 
grants under section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 
300j-12), to remain available until expended, for full lead service 
line replacement projects and associated activities directly connected 
to the identification, planning, design, and full replacement of lead 
service lines, of which $20,000,000,000 shall be for subsidies to 
disadvantaged communities (as defined in subsection (d)(3) of such 
section) in the form of loans, with 100 percent forgiveness of 
principal, or grants, notwithstanding subsection (d)(2) of such 
section.
    (b) Prohibition on Partial Line Replacement.--No funds made 
available under this section may be used for partial replacement of 
lead service lines.
    (c) No Leveraging.--Funds made available under this section may not 
be used as a source of payment of, or security for (directly or 
indirectly), in whole or in part, any obligation the interest on which 
is exempt from the tax imposed under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986.

SEC. 30302. COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM RISK AND RESILIENCE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $500,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
grants under section 1433(g) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 
300i-2(g)).

SEC. 30303. GRANTS FOR STATE PROGRAMS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
grants under section 1443 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 
300j-2).

SEC. 30304. ASSISTANCE FOR COLONIAS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
grants under section 1456 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 
300j-16).

SEC. 30305. GRANTS TO REDUCE LEAD IN SCHOOL DRINKING WATER.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $700,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
grants under sections 1464 and 1465 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 
U.S.C. 300j-24 and 300j-25), of which--
            (1) $420,000,000 shall be for grants for the installation 
        and maintenance of lead filtration stations at schools and 
        child care programs;
            (2) $150,000,000 shall be for grants under section 1464(d); 
        and
            (3) $50,000,000 shall be for grants under section 
        1465(b)(1) to pay the costs of replacement of drinking water 
        fountains in schools.

SEC. 30306. GRANTS FOR INDIAN RESERVATION DRINKING WATER 
              INFRASTRUCTURE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended, to 
implement eligible projects under section 2001 of America's Water 
Infrastructure Act of 2018 (42 U.S.C. 300j-3c note), notwithstanding 
the geographic limitations in that section.

SEC. 30307. ASSISTANCE FOR AREAS AFFECTED BY NATURAL DISASTERS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
grants under section 2020 of America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 
(42 U.S.C. 300j-12 note), of which, notwithstanding subsection (a)(2) 
of such section, $10,000,000 shall be available to make grants to Guam, 
the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands 
for the purposes of providing assistance to eligible systems to restore 
or increase compliance with national primary drinking water regulations 
in an underserved area.

SEC. 30308. ASSISTANCE FOR DISADVANTAGED COMMUNITIES.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $200,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
grants under section 1459A(b) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 
300j-19a(b)).

SEC. 30309. GRANTS FOR CONTAMINANT MONITORING.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended, to make 
grants to pay for the costs of monitoring required under section 
1445(a)(2) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-4(a)(2)).

SEC. 30310. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMALL PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended, to 
provide technical assistance under section 1442(e) of the Safe Drinking 
Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-1(e)).

SEC. 30311. FUNDING FOR WATER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this 
section referred to as the ``Secretary'') for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $500,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, for grants to States and Indian Tribes 
to assist low-income households, particularly those with the lowest 
incomes, that pay a high proportion of household income for drinking 
water and wastewater services, by providing funds to owners or 
operators of public water systems or treatment works to reduce 
arrearages of and rates charged to such households for such services.
    (b) Allotment.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) allot amounts appropriated in this section to a State 
        or Indian Tribe based on--
                    (A) the percentage of households in the State, or 
                under the jurisdiction of the Indian Tribe, with annual 
                income equal to or less than 150 percent of the Federal 
                poverty line; and
                    (B) the percentage of households in the State, or 
                under the jurisdiction of the Indian Tribe, that spend 
                more than 30 percent of monthly income on housing; and
            (2) reserve up to 3 percent of the amount appropriated in 
        this section for Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations.
    (c) Definition.--In this section, the term ``State'' means each of 
the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, 
and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
