---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Subtitle A - Air Pollution

## SEC. 30101. CLEAN HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLES.

### Appropriation

            (1) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Administrator of the 
        Environmental Protection Agency for fiscal year 2022, out of 
        any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
        $5,000,000,000, to remain available until expended (except that 
        no funds shall be disbursed after September 30, 2031), to carry 
        out section 132 of the Clean Air Act, as added by subsection 
        (b).
            (2) Reservation.--Of the funds appropriated by paragraph 
        (1), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
        shall reserve 3 percent for administrative costs necessary to 
        carry out section 132 of the Clean Air Act, as added by 
        subsection (b).

### Amendment

Part A of title I of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 132. CLEAN HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLES.

    ``(a) Program.--Beginning not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Administrator shall implement a program 
to make awards of grants and rebates to eligible recipients, and to 
make awards of contracts to eligible contractors for providing rebates, 
for up to 100 percent of costs for--
            ``(1) replacing eligible vehicles with zero-emission 
        vehicles;
            ``(2) infrastructure needed to charge, fuel, or maintain 
        zero-emission vehicles;
            ``(3) workforce development and training to support the 
        maintenance, charging, fueling, and operation of zero-emission 
        vehicles; and
            ``(4) planning and technical activities to support the 
        adoption and deployment of zero-emission vehicles.
    ``(b) Applications.--To seek an award under this section, an 
eligible recipient or eligible contractor shall submit to the 
Administrator an application in such form and manner as the 
Administrator shall prescribe.
    ``(c) Allocation.--Of any amount appropriated to carry out this 
section, no less than 40 percent shall be used for awards to eligible 
recipients proposing to replace eligible vehicles to serve one or more 
communities located in an air quality area designated pursuant to 
section 107 as nonattainment for any air pollutant.
    ``(d) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
            ``(1) Eligible contractor.--The term `eligible contractor' 
        means a contractor that is a for-profit or nonprofit entity 
        that has the capacity--
                    ``(A) to sell zero-emission vehicles, or charging 
                or other equipment needed to charge, fuel, or maintain 
                zero-emission vehicles, to individuals or entities that 
                own an eligible vehicle; or
                    ``(B) to arrange financing for such a sale.
            ``(2) Eligible recipient.--The term `eligible recipient' 
        means--
                    ``(A) a State or local governmental entity;
                    ``(B) an Indian Tribe (as defined in section 302);
                    ``(C) a nonprofit school transportation 
                association; or
                    ``(D) an eligible contractor.
            ``(3) Eligible vehicle.--The term `eligible vehicle' means 
        a Class 6 or Class 7 heavy-duty vehicle as defined in section 
        1037.801 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect 
        on the date of enactment of this section).
            ``(4) Zero-emission vehicle.--The term `zero-emission 
        vehicle' means a vehicle that has a drivetrain that produces, 
        under any possible operational mode or condition, zero exhaust 
        emission of--
                    ``(A) any air pollutant that is listed pursuant to 
                section 108(a) (or any precursor to such an air 
                pollutant); and
                    ``(B) any greenhouse gas.''.

SEC. 30102. GRANTS TO REDUCE AIR POLLUTION AT PORTS.

    Part A of title I of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.), as 
amended, is further amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 133. GRANTS TO REDUCE AIR POLLUTION AT PORTS.

    ``(a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Administrator for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $3,500,000,000, 
to remain available until expended (except that no funds shall be 
disbursed after September 30, 2031), to award rebates and grants to 
eligible recipients on a competitive basis to--
            ``(1) purchase or install zero-emissions port equipment and 
        technology for use at, or to directly serve, one or more ports;
            ``(2) conduct any relevant planning or permitting in 
        connection with such zero-emissions port equipment and 
        technology; and
            ``(3) develop qualified climate action plans.
    ``(b) Reservation.--Of the funds made available by this section, 
$875,000,000 shall be reserved for awards to eligible recipients to 
carry out activities with respect to ports located in nonattainment 
areas for any air pollutant.
    ``(c) Limitation.--Funds awarded under this section shall not be 
used--
            ``(1) to purchase fully automated cargo-handling equipment 
        or terminal infrastructure that is designed for fully automated 
        cargo-handling equipment; or
            ``(2) by any recipient or sub-recipient to perform 
        construction, alteration, installation, or repair work that is 
        not located at, or does not directly serve, the one or more 
        ports involved.
    ``(d) Administration of Funds.--Of the funds made available by this 
section, the Administrator shall reserve 2 percent for administrative 
costs necessary to carry out this section.
    ``(e) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
            ``(1) Eligible recipient.--The term `eligible recipient' 
        means--
                    ``(A) a port authority;
                    ``(B) a State, regional, local, or Tribal agency 
                that has jurisdiction over a port authority or a port;
                    ``(C) an air pollution control agency; or
                    ``(D) a private entity (including any nonprofit 
                organization) that--
                            ``(i) applies for a grant under this 
                        section in partnership with an entity described 
                        in subparagraphs (A), (B), or (C); and
                            ``(ii) owns, operates, or uses the 
                        facilities, cargo-handling equipment, 
                        transportation equipment, or related technology 
                        of a port.
            ``(2) Qualified climate action plan.--The term `qualified 
        climate action plan' means a detailed and strategic plan that--
                    ``(A) establishes goals, implementation strategies, 
                and accounting and inventory practices (including 
                practices used to measure progress towards stated 
                goals) to reduce emissions at one or more ports of--
                            ``(i) greenhouse gases;
                            ``(ii) any air pollutant that is listed 
                        pursuant to section 108(a) (or any precursor to 
                        such an air pollutant); and
                            ``(iii) hazardous air pollutants; and
                    ``(B) includes a strategy to collaborate with, 
                communicate with, and address potential effects on 
                stakeholders that may be affected by implementation of 
                such plan, including low-income and disadvantaged near-
                port communities.
            ``(3) Zero-emissions port equipment and technology.--The 
        term `zero-emissions port equipment and technology' means any 
        equipment or technology that--
                    ``(A) produces zero emissions of any air pollutant 
                that is listed pursuant to section 108(a) (or any 
                precursor to such an air pollutant) and any greenhouse 
                gas other than water vapor; or
                    ``(B) captures 100 percent of such emissions 
                produced by an ocean-going vessel at berth.''.

SEC. 30103. GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTION FUND.

    Part A of title I of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.), as 
amended, is further amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 134. GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTION FUND.

    ``(a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated--
            ``(1) $7,495,000,000 to the Administrator, to remain 
        available until expended (except that no funds shall be 
        disbursed after September 30, 2026), to make grants, on a 
        competitive basis and not later than 180 calendar days after 
        the date of enactment of this section, to States, units of 
        local government, the District of Columbia, territories of the 
        United States, Tribal governments, and eligible recipients for 
        the purposes of providing financial and technical assistance to 
        enable low-income and disadvantaged communities to deploy zero-
        emission technologies, including distributed zero-emission 
        technologies on residential rooftops, and to carry out other 
        greenhouse gas emission reduction activities, as determined 
        appropriate by the Administrator in accordance with this 
        section;
            ``(2) $19,995,000,000 to the Administrator, to remain 
        available until expended (except that no funds shall be 
        disbursed after September 30, 2026), to make grants, on a 
        competitive basis and not later than 180 calendar days after 
        the date of enactment of this section, to eligible recipients, 
        of which $8,000,000,000 shall be used to provide financial 
        assistance in low-income and disadvantaged communities; and
            ``(3) $10,000,000 to the Administrator, to remain available 
        until expended (except that no funds shall be disbursed after 
        September 30, 2031), for the administrative costs necessary to 
        carry out activities under this section.
    ``(b) Use of Funds.--An eligible recipient that receives a grant 
pursuant to subsection (a) shall operate in accordance with the 
following:
            ``(1) Direct investment.--An eligible recipient shall--
                    ``(A) use a broad range of finance and investment 
                tools to provide financial assistance to qualified 
                projects at the national, regional, State, and local 
                levels, including, as applicable, through both 
                concessionary and market rate financing;
                    ``(B) prioritize investment in qualified projects 
                that would otherwise lack access to financing;
                    ``(C) retain, manage, recycle, and monetize all 
                repayments and other revenue received from fees, 
                interest, repaid loans, and all other types of 
                financial assistance provided using grant funds under 
                this section to ensure continued operability; and
                    ``(D) meet any requirements set forth by the 
                Administrator to ensure accountability and proper 
                management of funds appropriated by this section.
            ``(2) Indirect investment.--An eligible recipient shall 
        provide financial and technical assistance to establish new or 
        support existing public, quasi-public, or nonprofit entities 
        that provide financial assistance to qualified projects at the 
        State, local, territorial, or Tribal level or in the District 
        of Columbia, including community- and low-income-focused 
        lenders and capital providers.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Eligible recipient.--The term `eligible recipient' 
        means a nonprofit organization that--
                    ``(A) is designed to provide capital, including by 
                leveraging private capital, and other forms of 
                financial assistance for the rapid deployment of low- 
                and zero-emission products, technologies, and 
                activities;
                    ``(B) does not take deposits, other than from 
                repayments and other revenue received from financial 
                assistance provided using grant funds under this 
                section;
                    ``(C) is funded by public or charitable 
                contributions; and
                    ``(D) invests in or finances projects alone or in 
                conjunction with other investors.
            ``(2) Qualified project.--The term `qualified project' 
        includes any low- or zero-emission project, technology, or 
        activity that--
                    ``(A) reduces or avoids greenhouse gas emissions 
                and other forms of air pollution in partnership with, 
                and by leveraging investment from, the private sector; 
                or
                    ``(B) assists communities in the efforts of those 
                communities to reduce or avoid greenhouse gas emissions 
                and other forms of air pollution.
            ``(3) Zero-emission technology.--The term `zero-emission 
        technology' means any technology that produces zero emissions 
        of--
                    ``(A) any air pollutant that is listed pursuant to 
                section 108(a) (or any precursor to such an air 
                pollutant); and
                    ``(B) any greenhouse gas.''.

SEC. 30104. COLLABORATIVE COMMUNITY WILDFIRE AIR GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $150,000,000, to remain available until 
expended (except that no funds shall be disbursed after September 30, 
2031), for grants authorized under section 103 of the Clean Air Act (42 
U.S.C. 7403) to assist eligible entities in developing and implementing 
collaborative community plans to prepare for smoke from wildfires, 
reduce risks of smoke exposure due to wildfires, and mitigate the 
health and environmental effects of smoke from wildfires.
    (b) Technical Assistance.--The Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency may use amounts made available under subsection (a) 
to provide technical assistance to any eligible entity in--
            (1) submitting an application for a grant to be made 
        pursuant to this section; or
            (2) carrying out a project using a grant made pursuant to 
        this section.
    (c) Administrative Costs.--Of the amounts made available under 
subsection (a), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency shall reserve 7.5 percent for administrative costs to carry out 
this section.
    (d) Eligible Entities.--In this section, the term ``eligible 
entity'' means a State, a territory, a unit of local government 
(including any special district, such as an air quality management 
district), or an Indian Tribe.

SEC. 30105. DIESEL EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $170,000,000, to remain available until 
expended (except that no funds shall be disbursed after September 30, 
2031), to address diesel emissions, of which--
            (1) $100,000,000 shall be for grants, rebates, loans, and 
        other Environmental Protection Agency activities under subtitle 
        G of title VII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
        16131 through 16137) to identify and reduce diesel emissions 
        resulting from goods movement facilities, and vehicles 
        servicing goods movement facilities, in low-income and 
        disadvantaged communities to address the health impacts of such 
        emissions on such communities;
            (2) $50,000,000 shall be for grants, rebates, loans, and 
        other Environmental Protection Agency activities under subtitle 
        G of title VII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005; and
            (3) $20,000,000 shall be for grants, rebates, loans, and 
        other Environmental Protection Agency activities under subtitle 
        G of title VII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to identify and 
        reduce diesel emissions in low-income and disadvantaged 
        communities to address the health impacts of such emissions on 
        such communities.
    (b) Administrative Costs.--The Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency shall reserve 5 percent of the amounts made available 
under subsection (a) for the administrative costs necessary to carry 
out activities pursuant to such subsection.

SEC. 30106. FUNDING TO ADDRESS AIR POLLUTION.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $320,000,000, to remain available until 
expended (except that no funds shall be disbursed after September 30, 
2031), to address air pollution, of which--
            (1) $265,000,000 shall be for grants and other activities 
        authorized under sections 102, 103, and 105 of the Clean Air 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 7402, 7403, and 7405), of which--
                    (A) $122,000,000 shall be to deploy, integrate, 
                support, and maintain fenceline monitoring and 
                screening air monitoring, including national air toxics 
                trend stations and other air toxics and community 
                monitoring;
                    (B) $75,000,000 shall be to expand the national 
                ambient air quality monitoring network with new 
                multipollutant monitoring stations and to replace, 
                repair, operate, and maintain existing monitors;
                    (C) $3,000,000 shall be to deploy, integrate, and 
                operate air quality sensors in low-income and 
                disadvantaged communities; and
                    (D) $15,000,000 shall be for testing and other 
                agency activities to address emissions from wood 
                heaters; and
                    (E) $50,000,000 shall be for monitoring emissions 
                of methane;
            (2) $50,000,000 shall be to carry out, with respect to 
        greenhouse gases, sections 111, 115, 169, 177, 202, 211, 213, 
        231, and 612, and other sections of the Clean Air Act (42 
        U.S.C. 7411, 7415, 7479, 7507, 7521, 7545, 7547, 7571, 7671k, 
        and others); and
            (3) $5,000,000 shall be to provide grants to States to 
        adopt and implement greenhouse gas and zero-emission standards 
        for mobile sources pursuant to section 177 of the Clean Air Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 7507).
    (b) Administration of Funds.--Of the funds made available pursuant 
to subsection (a)(1), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency shall reserve 5 percent for activities funded pursuant to such 
subsection other than grants.

SEC. 30107. FUNDING TO ADDRESS AIR POLLUTION AT SCHOOLS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$50,000,000, to remain available until expended, for grants, rebates, 
contracts, and other activities to monitor and reduce air pollution and 
greenhouse gas emissions at schools in low-income and disadvantaged 
communities under subsections (a) through (c) of section 103 of the 
Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7403) and section 105 of that Act (42 U.S.C. 
7405), of which the Administrator shall reserve not less than 25 
percent for technical assistance to such schools--
            (1) to address environmental issues;
            (2) to develop school environmental quality plans that 
        include standards for school building, design, construction, 
        and renovation; and
            (3) to identify and mitigate ongoing air pollution hazards.

SEC. 30108. LOW EMISSIONS ELECTRICITY PROGRAM.

    Part A of title I of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.), as 
amended, is further amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 135. LOW EMISSIONS ELECTRICITY PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Administrator for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, to 
remain available until expended (except that no funds shall be 
disbursed after September 30, 2031), to carry out this section.
    ``(b) Use of Funds.--Of the amounts made available by subsection 
(a), the Administrator shall use--
            ``(1) not less than $10,000,000 for consumer-related 
        education and partnerships with respect to reductions in 
        greenhouse gas emissions that result from domestic electricity 
        generation and use;
            ``(2) not less than $10,000,000 for education, technical 
        assistance, and partnerships within low-income and 
        disadvantaged communities with respect to reductions in 
        greenhouse gas emissions that result from domestic electricity 
        generation and use;
            ``(3) not less than $10,000,000 for industry-related 
        outreach and technical assistance, including through 
        partnerships, with respect to reductions in greenhouse gas 
        emissions that result from domestic electricity generation and 
        use;
            ``(4) not less than $10,000,000 for outreach and technical 
        assistance to State and local governments, including through 
        partnerships, with respect to reductions in greenhouse gas 
        emissions that result from domestic electricity generation and 
        use;
            ``(5) not less than $1,000,000 to assess, not later than 
        the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
        section, the reductions in greenhouse gas emissions that result 
        from changes in domestic electricity generation and use that 
        are anticipated to occur on an annual basis through fiscal year 
        2031; and
            ``(6) not less than $20,000,000 to carry out this section 
        to ensure that the anticipated reductions in greenhouse gas 
        emissions from domestic electricity generation and use as 
        assessed under paragraph (5) are achieved through use of the 
        authorities of this Act, including through the establishment of 
        requirements under this Act.''.

SEC. 30109. FUNDING FOR SECTION 211 OF THE CLEAN AIR ACT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$15,000,000, to remain available until expended, to carry out section 
211 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545), of which--
            (1) not less than $5,000,000 shall be for the development 
        and establishment of tests and protocols regarding the 
        environmental and public health effects of a fuel or fuel 
        additive; internal and extramural data collection and analyses 
        to regularly update applicable regulations, guidance, and 
        procedures for determining lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions 
        of a fuel; and the review, analysis and evaluation of the 
        impacts of all transportation fuels, including fuel lifecycle 
        implications, on the general public and on low-income and 
        disadvantaged communities; and
            (2) not less than $5,000,000 shall be for new grants to 
        industry and other related activities to support investments in 
        advanced biofuels.

SEC. 30110. FUNDING FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AMERICAN INNOVATION AND 
              MANUFACTURING ACT.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $42,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, to carry out section 103 of division S of Public 
Law 116-260, of which--
            (1) $3,500,000 shall be to deploy new implementation and 
        compliance tools; and
            (2) $15,000,000 shall be for competitive grants for reclaim 
        and innovative destruction technologies.
    (b) Administration of Funds.--Of the funds made available pursuant 
to subsection (a)(2), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency shall reserve 5 percent for administrative costs of carrying out 
such section 103.

SEC. 30111. FUNDING FOR ENFORCEMENT TECHNOLOGY AND PUBLIC INFORMATION.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$50,000,000, to remain available until expended (except that no funds 
shall be disbursed after September 30, 2031), to address air pollution, 
of which--
            (1) $37,000,000 shall be to update Integrated Compliance 
        Information System of the Environmental Protection Agency and 
        any associated systems, necessary information technology 
        infrastructure, or public access software tools to ensure 
        access to compliance data and related information;
            (2) $7,000,000 shall be for grants to States, Indian 
        Tribes, and air pollution control agencies (as such terms are 
        defined in section 302 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7602)) 
        to update their systems to ensure communication with such 
        Integrated Compliance Information System and any associated 
        systems; and
            (3) $6,000,000 shall be to acquire or update inspection 
        software for use by the Environmental Protection Agency, 
        States, Indian Tribes, and air pollution control agencies (as 
        such terms are defined in section 302 of the Clean Air Act (42 
        U.S.C. 7602)), or to acquire necessary devices on which to run 
        such inspection software.

SEC. 30112. GREENHOUSE GAS CORPORATE REPORTING.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Environmental Protection Agency Office of Air and Radiation for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $5,000,000, to remain available until expended (except 
that no funds shall be disbursed after September 30, 2031), for the 
Environmental Protection Agency to support--
            (1) enhanced standardization and transparency of corporate 
        climate action commitments and plans to reduce greenhouse gas 
        emissions;
            (2) enhanced transparency regarding progress toward meeting 
        such commitments and implementing such plans; and
            (3) progress toward meeting such commitments and 
        implementing such plans.

SEC. 30113. ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT DECLARATION ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $250,000,000, to remain available until 
expended (except that no funds shall be disbursed after September 30, 
2031), to develop and carry out a program, to be known as the 
Environmental Product Declaration Assistance Program, to support the 
development, and enhanced standardization and transparency, of 
environmental product declarations for construction materials and 
products, including by--
            (1) providing grants to businesses that manufacture 
        construction materials and products for developing and 
        verifying environmental product declarations;
            (2) providing technical assistance to businesses that 
        manufacture construction materials and products in developing 
        and verifying environmental product declarations; and
            (3) carrying out other activities that assist in measuring 
        and steadily reducing the quantity of embodied carbon of 
        construction materials and products.
    (b) Administration of Funds.--Of the amounts made available under 
this section, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
shall reserve 7.5 percent for administrative costs necessary to carry 
out this section.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Embodied carbon.--The term ``embodied carbon'' means 
        the quantity of greenhouse gas emissions associated with all 
        relevant stages of production of a material or product, 
        measured in kilograms of carbon dioxide-equivalent per unit of 
        such material or product.
            (2) Environmental product declaration.--The term 
        ``environmental product declaration'' means a document that 
        reports the environmental impact of a material or product 
        that--
                    (A) includes measurement of the embodied carbon of 
                the material or product;
                    (B) conforms with international standards, such as 
                a Type III environmental product declaration, as 
                defined by the International Organization for 
                Standardization standard 14025; and
                    (C) is developed in accordance with any 
                standardized reporting criteria specified by the 
                Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.

SEC. 30114. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY METHANE FEE.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $75,000,000, to remain available 
until expended (except that no funds shall be disbursed after September 
30, 2024), to carry out section 136 of the Clean Air Act, as added by 
this section.
    (b) Amendment.--Part A of title I of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 
7401 et seq.), as amended, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 136. METHANE FEE FROM PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS SYSTEMS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator shall impose and collect a fee 
from the owner or operator of each applicable facility that is required 
to report methane emissions pursuant to subpart W of part 98 of title 
40, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulations).
    ``(b) Applicable Facility.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`applicable facility' means a facility within the following industry 
segments, as defined in subpart W of part 98 of title 40, Code of 
Federal Regulations (or any successor regulations):
            ``(1) Offshore petroleum and natural gas production.
            ``(2) Onshore petroleum and natural gas production.
            ``(3) Natural gas processing,
            ``(4) Natural gas transmission and compression.
            ``(5) Underground natural gas storage.
            ``(6) Liquefied natural gas storage.
            ``(7) Liquefied natural gas import and export equipment.
            ``(8) Onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and 
        boosting.
            ``(9) Onshore natural gas transmission pipeline
    ``(c) Fee Amount.--The amount of a fee imposed and collected under 
subsection (a) for an applicable facility shall be equal to the product 
obtained by multiplying--
            ``(1) subject to subsection (d), the number of tons of 
        methane reported for the applicable facility pursuant to 
        subpart W of part 98 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations 
        (or any successor regulations), during the previous reporting 
        period; and
            ``(2) $1500.
    ``(d) Intensity Threshold.--
            ``(1) Petroleum and natural gas production.--With respect 
        to imposing and collecting the fee under subsection (a) for an 
        applicable facility in an industry segment listed in paragraph 
        (1) or (2) of subsection (b), the Administrator shall impose 
        and collect the fee on the reported tons of methane emissions 
        that exceed 0.20 percent of the natural gas sent to sale from 
        such facility.
            ``(2) Nonproduction petroleum and natural gas systems.--
        With respect to imposing and collecting the fee under 
        subsection (a) for an applicable facility in an industry 
        segment listed in paragraph (3), (5), (6), (7), or (8) of 
        subsection (b), the Administrator shall impose and collect the 
        fee on the reported tons of methane emissions that exceed 0.05 
        percent of the natural gas sent to sale from such facility.
            ``(3) Natural gas transmission.--With respect to imposing 
        and collecting the fee under subsection (a) for an applicable 
        facility in an industry segment listed in paragraph (4) or (9) 
        of subsection (b), the Administrator shall impose and collect 
        the fee on the reported tons of methane emissions that exceed 
        0.11 percent of the natural gas sent to sale from such 
        facility.
    ``(e) Period.--The fee under subsection (a) shall be imposed and 
collected beginning with respect to emissions reported for calendar 
year 2023 and for each year thereafter.
    ``(f) Implementation.--In addition to other authorities in this Act 
addressing air pollution from the oil and natural gas sectors, the 
Administrator may issue guidance or regulations as necessary to carry 
out this section.
    ``(g) Reporting.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this section, and as necessary thereafter, the 
Administrator shall revise the requirements of subpart W of part 98 of 
title 40, Code of Federal Regulations--
            ``(1) to reduce the facility emissions threshold for 
        reporting under such subpart and for paying the fee imposed 
        under this section to 10,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide 
        equivalent of greenhouse gases emitted per year; and
            ``(2) to ensure the reporting under such subpart, and 
        calculation of fees under subsection (c) of this section, are 
        based on empirical data and accurately reflect the total 
        methane emissions from the applicable facilities.
    ``(h) Liability for Fee Payment.--A facility owner or operator's 
liability for payment of the fee under subsection (a) is not affected 
in any way by emission standards, permit fees, penalties, or other 
requirements under this Act or any other legal authorities.
    ``(i) Use of Proceeds.--
            ``(1) Transfer of funds.--For each applicable fiscal year, 
        the Secretary of the Treasury shall, without further 
        appropriation, transfer to the Administrator an amount equal to 
        75 percent of the amounts received during the preceding fiscal 
        year as a result of the methane fee in subsection (a).
            ``(2) Use of funds.--The Administrator shall, without 
        further appropriation, use the amounts transferred under 
        paragraph (1) (except that no funds shall be disbursed after 
        September 30, 2028)--
                    ``(A) to cover all direct and indirect costs 
                required to develop and administer this section, 
                including the costs of--
                            ``(i) implementing the fee;
                            ``(ii) continuous emissions and ambient 
                        methane and other greenhouse gas monitoring;
                            ``(iii) preparing generally applicable 
                        regulations, or guidance;
                            ``(iv) modeling, analyses, and 
                        demonstrations; and
                            ``(v) preparing inventories, gathering 
                        empirical data, and tracking emissions;
                    ``(B) for grants, rebates, contracts and other 
                activities of the Environmental Protection Agency for 
                the purposes of providing financial and technical 
                assistance to owners and operators of applicable 
                facilities preparing and submitting greenhouse gas 
                reports under subpart W of part 98 of title 40, Code of 
                Federal Regulations (or successor regulations);
                    ``(C) for grants, rebates, contracts, and other 
                activities of the Environmental Protection Agency 
                authorized under section 103 for methane emissions 
                monitoring; and
                    ``(D) for grants, rebates, contracts, and other 
                activities of the Environmental Protection Agency for 
                the purposes of providing financial and technical 
                assistance to reduce methane and other greenhouse gas 
                emissions from petroleum and natural gas systems, 
                mitigate legacy air pollution from petroleum and 
                natural gas systems, and provide support for 
                communities, including funding for--
                            ``(i) improving climate resiliency of 
                        communities and petroleum and natural gas 
                        systems;
                            ``(ii) improving and deploying industrial 
                        equipment and processes that reduce methane and 
                        other greenhouse gas emissions;
                            ``(iii) supporting innovation in reducing 
                        methane and other greenhouse gas emissions from 
                        petroleum and natural gas systems;
                            ``(iv) mitigating health effects of methane 
                        and other greenhouse gas emissions, and legacy 
                        air pollution from petroleum and natural gas 
                        systems in low-income and disadvantaged 
                        communities; and
                            ``(v) supporting environmental 
                        restoration.''.
