---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Subtitle F - Affordable Health Care Coverage

SEC. 30601. ENSURING AFFORDABILITY OF COVERAGE FOR CERTAIN LOW-INCOME 
              POPULATIONS.

    (a) Reducing Cost Sharing Under Qualified Health Plans.--Section 
1402 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 
18071) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``(or, with 
                respect to plan years 2023 and 2024, whose household 
                income does not exceed 400 percent of the poverty line 
                for a family of the size involved)'' before the period; 
                and
                    (B) in the matter following paragraph (2), by 
                adding at the end the following new sentence: ``In the 
                case of an individual with a household income that does 
                not exceed 138 percent of the poverty line for a family 
                of the size involved for any month occurring during the 
                period beginning on January 1, 2022, and ending on 
                December 31, 2022, such individual shall, for such 
                month and for each succeeding month during such period, 
                be treated as having household income equal to 100 
                percent for purposes of applying this section.''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(A), in the matter preceding 
                clause (i), by inserting ``, with respect to eligible 
                insureds (other than, with respect to plan years 2023 
                and 2024, specified enrollees (as defined in paragraph 
                (6)(C))),'' after ``first be achieved'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by inserting ``with respect to 
                eligible insureds (other than, with respect to plan 
                years 2023 and 2024, specified enrollees)'' after 
                ``under the plan'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``this 
                        subsection'' and inserting ``paragraph (1) or 
                        (2)''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                        ``this section'' and inserting ``paragraphs (1) 
                        and (2)''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(6) Special rule for specified enrollees.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall establish 
                procedures under which the issuer of a qualified health 
                plan to which this section applies shall reduce cost-
                sharing under the plan with respect to months occurring 
                during plan years 2023 and 2024 for enrollees who are 
                specified enrollees (as defined in subparagraph (C)) in 
                a manner sufficient to increase the plan's share of the 
                total allowed costs of benefits provided under the plan 
                to 99 percent of such costs.
                    ``(B) Methods for reducing cost sharing.--
                            ``(i) In general.--An issuer of a qualified 
                        health plan making reductions under this 
                        paragraph shall notify the Secretary of such 
                        reductions and the Secretary shall, out of 
                        funds made available under clause (ii), make 
                        periodic and timely payments to the issuer 
                        equal to 12 percent of the total allowed costs 
                        of benefits provided under each such plan to 
                        specified enrollees during plan years 2023 and 
                        2024.
                            ``(ii) Appropriation.--In addition to 
                        amounts otherwise available, there are 
                        appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury 
                        not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be 
                        necessary to the Secretary to make payments 
                        under clause (i).
                    ``(C) Specified enrollee defined.--For purposes of 
                this section, the term `specified enrollee' means, with 
                respect to a month occurring during a plan year, an 
                eligible insured with a household income that does not 
                exceed 138 percent of the poverty line for a family of 
                the size involved during such month. Such insured shall 
                be deemed to be a specified enrollee for each 
                succeeding month in such plan year.''.
    (b) Open Enrollments Applicable to Certain Lower-income 
Populations.--Section 1311(c) of the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18031(c)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (6)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking at the end 
                ``and'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(E) with respect to a qualified health plan with 
                respect to which section 1402 applies, for months 
                occurring during the period beginning on January 1, 
                2022, and ending on December 31, 2024, enrollment 
                periods described in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (8) 
                for individuals described in subparagraph (B) of such 
                paragraph.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(8) Special enrollment period for certain low-income 
        populations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The enrollment period described 
                in this paragraph is, in the case of an individual 
                described in subparagraph (B), the continuous period 
                beginning on the first day that such individual is so 
                described.
                    ``(B) Individual described.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A), an individual described in this 
                subparagraph is an individual--
                            ``(i) with a household income that does not 
                        exceed 138 percent of the poverty line for a 
                        family of the size involved; and
                            ``(ii) who is not eligible for minimum 
                        essential coverage (as defined in section 
                        5000A(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986), 
                        other than for coverage described in any of 
                        subparagraphs (B) through (E) of paragraph (1) 
                        of such section.''.
    (c) Additional Benefits for Certain Low-income Individuals for Plan 
Year 2024.--Section 1301(a) of the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18021(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (C)(iv), by striking the period 
                and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(D) provides, with respect to a plan offered in 
                the silver level of coverage to which section 1402 
                applies during plan year 2024, for benefits described 
                in paragraph (5) in the case of an individual who, for 
                a month during such plan year, has a household income 
                that does not exceed 138 percent of the poverty line 
                for a family of the size involved, and who is eligible 
                to receive cost-sharing reductions under section 
                1402.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Additional benefits for certain low-income 
        individuals for plan year 2024.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of paragraph 
                (1)(D), the benefits described in this paragraph to be 
                provided by a qualified health plan are benefits 
                consisting of non-emergency medical transportation 
                services (as described in section 1902(a)(4)) and 
                services described in subsection (a)(4)(C) of section 
                1905 of the Social Security Act, without any 
                restriction on the choice of a qualified provider from 
                whom such an individual so enrolled in such plan may 
                receive such services described in such subsection, and 
                without any imposition of cost sharing, which are not 
                otherwise provided under such plan as part of the 
                essential health benefits package described in section 
                1302(a).
                    ``(B) Payments for additional benefits.--
                            ``(i) In general.--An issuer of a qualified 
                        health plan making payments for services 
                        described in subparagraph (A) furnished to 
                        individuals described in paragraph (1)(D) 
                        during plan year 2024 shall notify the 
                        Secretary of such payments and the Secretary 
                        shall, out of funds made available under clause 
                        (ii), make periodic and timely payments to the 
                        issuer equal to payments for such services so 
                        furnished.
                            ``(ii) Appropriation.--In addition to 
                        amounts otherwise available, there is 
                        appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury 
                        not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be 
                        necessary to the Secretary to make payments 
                        under clause (i).''.
    (d) Education and Outreach Activities.----
            (1) In general.--Section 1321(c) of the Patient Protection 
        and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18041(c)) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Outreach and educational activities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of an Exchange 
                established or operated by the Secretary within a State 
                pursuant to this subsection, the Secretary shall carry 
                out outreach and educational activities for purposes of 
                informing individuals described in section 
                1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) of the Social Security Act who 
                reside in States that have not expended amounts under a 
                State plan (or waiver of such plan) under title XIX of 
                such Act for all such individuals about qualified 
                health plans offered through the Exchange, including by 
                informing such individuals of the availability of 
                coverage under such plans and financial assistance for 
                coverage under such plans. Such outreach and 
                educational activities shall be provided in a manner 
                that is culturally and linguistically appropriate to 
                the needs of the populations being served by the 
                Exchange (including hard-to-reach populations, such as 
                racial and sexual minorities, limited English 
                proficient populations, individuals residing in areas 
                where the unemployment rates exceeds the national 
                average unemployment rate, individuals in rural areas, 
                veterans, and young adults).
                    ``(B) Limitation on use of funds.--No funds 
                appropriated under this paragraph shall be used for 
                expenditures for promoting non-ACA compliant health 
                insurance coverage.
                    ``(C) Non-aca compliant health insurance 
                coverage.--For purposes of subparagraph (B):
                            ``(i) The term `non-ACA compliant health 
                        insurance coverage' means health insurance 
                        coverage, or a group health plan, that is not a 
                        qualified health plan.
                            ``(ii) Such term includes the following:
                                    ``(I) An association health plan.
                                    ``(II) Short-term limited duration 
                                insurance.
                    ``(D) Funding.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
                available, there is appropriated, out of any money in 
                the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain 
                available until expended, $15,000,000 for fiscal year 
                2022, and $30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 and 
                2024, to carry out this paragraph.''.
            (2) Navigator program.--Section 1311(i)(6) of the Patient 
        Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18031(i)(6)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Funding.--Grants under'' and 
                inserting ``Funding.--
                    ``(A) State exchanges.--Grants under''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(B) Federal exchanges.--For purposes of carrying 
                out this subsection, with respect to an Exchange 
                established and operated by the Secretary within a 
                State pursuant to section 1321(c), the Secretary shall 
                obligate $10,000,000 out of amounts collected through 
                the user fees on participating health insurance issuers 
                pursuant to section 156.50 of title 45, Code of Federal 
                Regulations (or any successor regulations) for fiscal 
                year 2022, and $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
                2023 and 2024. Such amount so obligated for a fiscal 
                year shall remain available until expended.''.

SEC. 30602. TEMPORARY EXPANSION OF HEALTH INSURANCE PREMIUM TAX CREDITS 
              FOR CERTAIN LOW-INCOME POPULATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 36B is amended by redesignating subsection 
(h) as subsection (i) and by inserting after subsection (g) the 
following new subsection:
    ``(h) Certain Temporary Rules for 2022 Through 2024.--With respect 
to any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2021, and before 
January 1, 2025--
            ``(1) Eligibility for credit not limited based on income.--
        Section 36B(c)(1)(A) shall be disregarded in determining 
        whether a taxpayer is an applicable taxpayer.
            ``(2) Credit allowed to certain low-income employees 
        offered employer-provided coverage.--Subclause (II) of 
        subsection (c)(2)(C)(i) shall not apply if the taxpayer's 
        household income does not exceed 138 percent of the poverty 
        line for a family of the size involved. The last sentence of 
        such subsection shall also apply for purposes of this 
        paragraph. Subclause (II) of subsection (c)(2)(C)(i) shall also 
        not apply to an individual described in the last sentence of 
        such subsection if the taxpayer's household income does not 
        exceed 138 percent of the poverty line for a family of the size 
        involved.
            ``(3) Credit allowed to certain low-income employees 
        offered qualified small employer health reimbursement 
        arrangements.--A qualified small employer health reimbursement 
        arrangement shall not be treated as constituting affordable 
        coverage for an employee (or any spouse or dependent of such 
        employee) for any months of a taxable year if the employee's 
        household income for such taxable year does not exceed 138 
        percent of the poverty line for a family of the size involved.
            ``(4) Limitations on recapture.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of a taxpayer whose 
                household income is less than 200 percent of the 
                poverty line for the size of the family involved for 
                the taxable year, the amount of the increase under 
                subsection (f)(2)(A) shall in no event exceed $300 
                (one-half of such amount in the case of a taxpayer 
                whose tax is determined under section 1(c) for the 
                taxable year).
                    ``(B) Limitation on increase for certain non-
                filers.--In the case of any taxpayer who would not be 
                required to file a return of tax for the taxable year 
                but for any requirement to reconcile advance credit 
                payments under subsection (f), if an Exchange 
                established under title I of the Patient Protection and 
                Affordable Care Act has determined that--
                            ``(i) such taxpayer is eligible for advance 
                        payments under section 1412 of such Act for any 
                        portion of such taxable year, and
                            ``(ii) such taxpayer's household income for 
                        such taxable year is projected to not exceed 
                        138 percent of the poverty line for a family of 
                        the size involved,
                subsection (f)(2)(A) shall not apply to such taxpayer 
                for such taxable year and such taxpayer shall not be 
                required to file such return of tax.
                    ``(C) Information provided by exchange.--The 
                information required to be provided by an Exchange to 
                the Secretary and to the taxpayer under subsection 
                (f)(3) shall include such information as is necessary 
                to determine whether such Exchange has made the 
                determinations described in clauses (i) and (ii) of 
                subparagraph (B) with respect to such taxpayer.''.
    (b) Employer Shared Responsibility Provision Not Applicable With 
Respect to Certain Low-income Taxpayers Receiving Premium Assistance.--
Section 4980H(c)(3) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(3) Applicable premium tax credit and cost-sharing 
        reduction.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `applicable premium tax 
                credit and cost-sharing reduction' means--
                            ``(i) any premium tax credit allowed under 
                        section 36B,
                            ``(ii) any cost-sharing reduction under 
                        section 1402 of the Patient Protection and 
                        Affordable Care Act, and
                            ``(iii) any advance payment of such credit 
                        or reduction under section 1412 of such Act.
                    ``(B) Exception with respect to certain low-income 
                taxpayers.--Such term shall not include any premium tax 
                credit, cost-sharing reduction, or advance payment 
                otherwise described in subparagraph (A) if such credit, 
                reduction, or payment is allowed or paid for a taxable 
                year of an employee (beginning after December 31, 2021, 
                and before January 1, 2025) with respect to which--
                            ``(i) an Exchange established under title I 
                        of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
                        Act has determined that such employee's 
                        household income for such taxable year is 
                        projected to not exceed 138 percent of the 
                        poverty line for a family of the size involved, 
                        or
                            ``(ii) such employee's household income for 
                        such taxable year does not exceed 138 percent 
                        of the poverty line for a family of the size 
                        involved.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 30603. ESTABLISHING A HEALTH INSURANCE AFFORDABILITY FUND.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle D of title I of the Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act is amended by inserting after part 5 (42 U.S.C. 
18061 et seq.) the following new part:

         ``PART 6--IMPROVE HEALTH INSURANCE AFFORDABILITY FUND

``SEC. 1351. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.

    ``There is hereby established the `Improve Health Insurance 
Affordability Fund' to be administered by the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, acting through the Administrator of the Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services (in this section referred to as the 
`Administrator'), to provide funding, in accordance with this part, to 
the 50 States and the District of Columbia (each referred to in this 
section as a `State') beginning on January 1, 2023, for the purposes 
described in section 1352.

``SEC. 1352. USE OF FUNDS.

    ``(a) In General.--A State shall use the funds allocated to the 
State under this part for one of the following purposes:
            ``(1) To provide reinsurance payments to health insurance 
        issuers with respect to individuals enrolled under individual 
        health insurance coverage (other than through a plan described 
        in subsection (b)) offered by such issuers.
            ``(2) To provide assistance (other than through payments 
        described in paragraph (1)) to reduce out-of-pocket costs, such 
        as copayments, coinsurance, premiums, and deductibles, of 
        individuals enrolled under qualified health plans offered on 
        the individual market through an Exchange and of individuals 
        enrolled under standard health plans offered through a basic 
        health program established under section 1331.
    ``(b) Exclusion of Certain Grandfathered Plans, Transitional Plans, 
Student Health Plans, and Excepted Benefits.--For purposes of 
subsection (a), a plan described in this subsection is the following:
            ``(1) A grandfathered health plan (as defined in section 
        1251).
            ``(2) A plan (commonly referred to as a `transitional 
        plan') continued under the letter issued by the Centers for 
        Medicare & Medicaid Services on November 14, 2013, to the State 
        Insurance Commissioners outlining a transitional policy for 
        coverage in the individual and small group markets to which 
        section 1251 does not apply, and under the extension of the 
        transitional policy for such coverage set forth in the 
        Insurance Standards Bulletin Series guidance issued by the 
        Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services on March 5, 2014, 
        February 29, 2016, February 13, 2017, April 9, 2018, March 25, 
        2019, January 31, 2020, and January 19, 2021, or under any 
        subsequent extensions thereof.
            ``(3) Student health insurance coverage (as defined in 
        section 147.145 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, or 
        any successor regulation).
            ``(4) Excepted benefits (as defined in section 2791(c) of 
        the Public Health Service Act).

``SEC. 1353. STATE ELIGIBILITY AND APPROVAL; DEFAULT SAFEGUARD.

    ``(a) Encouraging State Options for Allocations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to subsection (b), to be 
        eligible for an allocation of funds under this part for a year 
        (beginning with 2023), a State shall submit to the 
        Administrator an application at such time (but, in the case of 
        allocations for 2023, not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this part and, in the case of allocations for 
        a subsequent year, not later than January 1 of the previous 
        year) and in such form and manner as specified by the 
        Administrator containing--
                    ``(A) a description of how the funds will be used; 
                and
                    ``(B) such other information as the Administrator 
                may require.
            ``(2) Automatic approval.--An application so submitted is 
        approved (as outlined in the terms of the plan) unless the 
        Administrator notifies the State submitting the application, 
        not later than 90 days after the date of the submission of such 
        application, that the application has been denied for not being 
        in compliance with any requirement of this part and of the 
        reason for such denial.
            ``(3) 5-year application approval.--If an application of a 
        State is approved for a purpose described in section 1352 for a 
        year, such application shall be treated as approved for such 
        purpose for each of the subsequent 4 years.
            ``(4) Oversight authority and authority to revoke 
        approval.--
                    ``(A) Oversight.--The Secretary may conduct 
                periodic reviews of the use of funds provided to a 
                State under this section, with respect to a purpose 
                described in section 1352, to ensure the State uses 
                such funds for such purpose and otherwise complies with 
                the requirements of this section.
                    ``(B) Revocation of approval.--The approval of an 
                application of a State, with respect to a purpose 
                described in section 1352, may be revoked if the State 
                fails to use funds provided to the State under this 
                section for such purpose or otherwise fails to comply 
                with the requirements of this section.
    ``(b) Default Federal Safeguard for 2023 and 2024 for Certain 
States.--
            ``(1) In general.--For 2023 and 2024, in the case of a 
        State described in paragraph (5), with respect to such year, 
        the State shall not be eligible to submit an application under 
        subsection (a), and the Administrator, in consultation with the 
        applicable State authority, shall from the amount calculated 
        under paragraph (3) for such year, carry out the purpose 
        described in paragraph (2) in such State for such year.
            ``(2) Specified use.--The amount described in paragraph 
        (3), with respect to a State described in paragraph (5) for 
        2023 or 2024, shall be used to carry out the purpose described 
        in section 1352(a)(1) in such State for such year, as 
        applicable, by providing reinsurance payments to health 
        insurance issuers with respect to attachment range claims (as 
        defined in section 1354(b)(2), using the dollar amounts 
        specified in subparagraph (B) of such section for such year) in 
        an amount equal to, subject to paragraph (4), the percentage 
        (specified for such year by the Secretary under such 
        subparagraph) of the amount of such claims.
            ``(3) Amount described.--The amount described in this 
        paragraph, with respect to 2023 or 2024, is the amount equal to 
        the total sum of amounts that the Secretary would otherwise 
        estimate under section 1354(b)(2)(A)(i) for such year for each 
        State described in paragraph (5) for such year, as applicable, 
        if each such State were not so described for such year.
            ``(4) Adjustment.--For purposes of this subsection, the 
        Secretary may apply a percentage under paragraph (3) with 
        respect to a year that is less than the percentage otherwise 
        specified in section 1354(b)(2)(B) for such year, if the cost 
        of paying the total eligible attachment range claims for States 
        described in paragraph (5) for such year at such percentage 
        otherwise specified would exceed the amount calculated under 
        paragraph (3) for such year.
            ``(5) State described.--A State described in this 
        paragraph, with respect to years 2023 and 2024, is a State 
        that, as of January 1 of 2022 or 2023, respectively, was not 
        expending amounts under the State plan (or waiver of such plan) 
        for all individuals described in section 
        1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) during such year.

``SEC. 1354. ALLOCATIONS.

    ``(a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $10,000,000,000 for 2023 and each subsequent year to 
provide allocations for States under subsection (b) and payments under 
section 1353(b) .
    ``(b) Allocations.--
            ``(1) Payment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--From amounts appropriated under 
                subsection (a) for a year, the Secretary shall, with 
                respect to a State not described in section 1353(b) for 
                such year and not later than the date specified under 
                subparagraph (B) for such year, allocate for such State 
                the amount determined for such State and year under 
                paragraph (2).
                    ``(B) Specified date.--For purposes of subparagraph 
                (A), the date specified in this subparagraph is--
                            ``(i) for 2023, the date that is 90 days 
                        after the date of the enactment of this part; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) for 2024 or a subsequent year, 
                        January 1 of the previous year.
                    ``(C) Notifications of allocation amounts.--For 
                2024 and each subsequent year, the Secretary shall 
                notify each State of the amount determined for such 
                State under paragraph (2) for such year by not later 
                than January 1 of the previous year.
            ``(2) Allocation amount determinations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of paragraph (1), 
                the amount determined under this paragraph for a year 
                for a State described in paragraph (1)(A) for such year 
                is the amount equal to--
                            ``(i) the amount that the Secretary 
                        estimates would be expended under this part for 
                        such year on attachment range claims of 
                        individuals residing in such State if such 
                        State used such funds only for the purpose 
                        described in paragraph (1) of section 1352(a) 
                        at the dollar amounts and percentage specified 
                        under subparagraph (B) for such year; minus
                            ``(ii) the amount, if any, by which the 
                        Secretary determines--
                                    ``(I) the estimated amount of 
                                premium tax credits under section 36B 
                                of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
                                that would be attributable to 
                                individuals residing in such State for 
                                such year without application of this 
                                part; exceeds
                                    ``(II) the estimated amount of 
                                premium tax credits under section 36B 
                                of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
                                that would be attributable to 
                                individuals residing in such State for 
                                such year if section 1353(b) applied 
                                for such year and applied with respect 
                                to such State for such year.
                For purposes of the previous sentence and section 
                1353(b)(3), the term `attachment range claims' means, 
                with respect to an individual, the claims for such 
                individual that exceed a dollar amount specified by the 
                Secretary for a year, but do not exceed a ceiling 
                dollar amount specified by the Secretary for such year, 
                under subparagraph (B).
                    ``(B) Specifications.--For purposes of subparagraph 
                (A) and section 1353(b)(3), the Secretary shall 
                determine the dollar amounts and the percentage to be 
                specified under this subparagraph for a year in a 
                manner to ensure that the total amount of expenditures 
                under this part for such year is estimated to equal the 
                total amount appropriated for such year under 
                subsection (a) if such expenditures were used solely 
                for the purpose described in paragraph (1) of section 
                1352(a) for attachment range claims at the dollar 
                amounts and percentage so specified for such year.
            ``(3) Availability.--Funds allocated to a State under this 
        subsection for a year shall remain available through the end of 
        the subsequent year.''.
    (b) Basic Health Program Funding Adjustments.--Section 1331 of the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18051) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(3) Provision of information on qualified health plan 
        premiums.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For plan years beginning on or 
                after January 1, 2023, the program described in 
                paragraph (1) shall provide that a State may not 
                establish a basic health program unless such State 
                furnishes to the Secretary, with respect to each 
                qualified health plan offered in such State during a 
                year that receives any reinsurance payment from funds 
                made available under part 6 for such year, the adjusted 
                premium amount (as defined in subparagraph (B)) for 
                each such plan and year.
                    ``(B) Adjusted premium amount defined.--For 
                purposes of subparagraph (A), the term `adjusted 
                premium amount' means, with respect to a qualified 
                health plan and a year, the monthly premium for such 
                plan and year that would have applied had such plan not 
                received any payments described in subparagraph (A) for 
                such year.''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)(3)(A)(ii), by adding at the end the 
        following new sentence: ``In making such determination, the 
        Secretary shall calculate the value of such premium tax credits 
        that would have been provided to such individuals enrolled 
        through a basic health program established by a State during a 
        year using the adjusted premium amounts (as defined in 
        subsection (a)(3)(B)) for qualified health plans offered in 
        such State during such year.''.