---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# PART 1 - FEDERAL MEDICAID PROGRAM TO CLOSE THE COVERAGE GAP

## SEC. 30701. CLOSING THE MEDICAID COVERAGE GAP.

    (a) Federal Medicaid Program to Close Coverage Gap in Nonexpansion 
States.--Title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 1948. FEDERAL MEDICAID PROGRAM TO CLOSE COVERAGE GAP IN 
              NONEXPANSION STATES.

    ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than January 1, 2025, the Secretary 
shall establish a program (in this section referred to as the `Federal 
Medicaid program' or the `Program' under which, in the case of a State 
that the Secretary determines (based on the State plan under this 
title, waiver of such plan, or other relevant information) is not 
expected to expend amounts under the State plan (or waiver of such 
plan) for all individuals who would be entitled to medical assistance 
pursuant to section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) during a year (beginning 
with 2025), (in this section defined as `a coverage gap State', with 
respect to such year), the Secretary shall (including through contract 
with eligible entities (as specified by the Secretary), consistent with 
subsection (b)) provide for the offering to such individuals residing 
in such State of health benefits. The Federal Medicaid program shall be 
offered in a coverage gap State for each quarter during the period 
beginning on January 1 of such year, and ending with the last day of 
the first quarter during which the State provides medical assistance to 
all such individuals under the State plan (or waiver of such plan). 
Under the Federal Medicaid program, the Secretary--
            ``(1) may use the Federally Facilitated Marketplace to 
        facilitate eligibility determinations and enrollments under the 
        Federal Medicaid Program and shall establish a set of 
        eligibility rules to be applied under the Program in a manner 
        consistent with section 1902(e)(14);
            ``(2) shall establish benefits, beneficiary protections, 
        and access to care standards by, at a minimum--
                    ``(A) establishing a minimum set of health benefits 
                to be provided (and providing such benefits) under the 
                Federal Medicaid program, which shall be in compliance 
                with the requirements of section 1937 and shall consist 
                of benchmark coverage described in section 1937(b)(1) 
                or benchmark equivalent coverage described in section 
                1937(b)(2) to the same extent as medical assistance 
                provided to such an individual under this title 
                (without application of this section) is required under 
                section 1902(k)(1) to consist of such benchmark 
                coverage or benchmark equivalent coverage;
                    ``(B) applying the provisions of sections 
                1902(a)(8), 1902(a)(34), and 1943 with respect to such 
                an individual, health benefits under the Federal 
                Medicaid program, and making application for such 
                benefits in the same manner as such provisions would 
                apply to such an individual, medical assistance under 
                this title (other than pursuant to this section), and 
                making application for such medical assistance under 
                this title (other than pursuant to this section); and 
                providing that redeterminations and appeals of 
                eligibility and coverage determinations of items and 
                services (including benefit reductions, terminations, 
                and suspension) shall be conducted under the Federal 
                Medicaid program in accordance with a Federal fair 
                hearing process established by the Secretary that is 
                subject to the same requirements as applied under 
                section 1902(a)(3) with respect to redeterminations and 
                appeals of eligibility, and with respect to coverage of 
                items and services (including benefit reductions, 
                terminations, and suspension), under a State plan under 
                this title and that may provide for such fair hearings 
                related to denials of eligibility (based on modified 
                adjusted gross income eligibility determinations) to be 
                conducted through the Federally Facilitated Marketplace 
                for Exchanges;
                    ``(C) applying, in accordance with subsection (d), 
                the provisions of section 1927 (other than 
                subparagraphs (B) and (C) of subsection (b)(1) of such 
                section) with respect to the Secretary and payment 
                under the Federal Medicaid program for covered 
                outpatient drugs with respect to a rebate period in the 
                same manner and to the same extent as such provisions 
                apply with respect to a State and payment under the 
                State plan for covered outpatient drugs with respect to 
                the rebate period;
                    ``(D) applying the provisions of sections 
                1902(a)(14), 1902(a)(23), 1902(a)(47), and 1920 through 
                1920C (as applicable) to the Federal Medicaid program 
                and such individuals enrolled in and entitled to health 
                benefits under such program in the same manner and to 
                the same extent as such provisions apply to such 
                individuals eligible for medical assistance under the 
                State plan, and applying the provisions of section 
                1902(a)(30)(A) with respect to medical assistance 
                available under the Federal Medicaid program in the 
                same manner and to the same extent as such provisions 
                apply to medical assistance under a State plan under 
                this title, except that--
                            ``(i) the Secretary shall provide that no 
                        cost sharing shall be applied under the Federal 
                        Medicaid program;
                            ``(ii) the Secretary may waive the 
                        provisions of subparagraph (A) of section 
                        1902(a)(23) to the extent deemed appropriate to 
                        facilitate the implementation of managed care;
                            ``(iii) in applying the provisions of 
                        section 1902(a)(47) and sections 1920 through 
                        1920C, the Secretary--
                                    ``(I) shall establish a single 
                                presumptive eligibility process for 
                                individuals eligible under the Federal 
                                Medicaid program, under which the 
                                Secretary may contract with entities to 
                                carry out such process; and
                                    ``(II) may apply such provisions 
                                and process in accordance with such 
                                phased-in implementation as the 
                                Secretary deems necessary, but 
                                beginning as soon as practicable); and
                    ``(E) prohibiting payment from being available 
                under the Federal Medicaid program for any item or 
                service subject to a payment exclusion under this title 
                or title XI.
    ``(b) Administration of Federal Medicaid Program Through Contracts 
With Medicaid Managed Care Organization and Third Party Plan 
Administrator Requirements.--
            ``(1) In general.--For the purpose of providing medical 
        assistance to individuals described in section 
        1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) enrolled under the Federal Medicaid 
        program across all coverage gap geographic areas (as defined in 
        paragraph (8)) in which such individuals reside, the Secretary 
        shall solicit bids described in paragraph (2) and enter into 
        contracts with a total of at least 2 eligible entities (as 
        specified by the Secretary, which may be a medicaid managed 
        care organization (in this section defined as a managed care 
        organization described in section 1932(a)(1)(B)(i)), a third 
        party plan administrator, or both). An eligible entity entering 
        into a contract with the Secretary under this paragraph may 
        administer such benefits as a medicaid managed care 
        organization (as so defined), in which case such contract shall 
        be in accordance with paragraph (3) with respect to such 
        geographic area, or as a third-party administrator, in which 
        case such contract shall be in accordance with paragraph (4) 
        with respect to such geographic area. The Secretary may so 
        contract with a Medicaid managed care organization or third 
        party plan administrator in each coverage gap geographic area 
        (and may specify which type of eligible entity may bid with 
        respect to a coverage gap geographic area or areas) and may 
        contract with more than one such eligible entity in the same 
        coverage gap geographic area.
            ``(2) Bids.--
                    ``(A) In general.--To be eligible to enter into a 
                contract under this subsection, for a year, an entity 
                shall submit (at such time, in such manner, and 
                containing such information as specified by the 
                Secretary) one or more bids to provide medical 
                assistance under the Program in one or more coverage 
                gap geographic areas, which are actuarially sound and 
                reflect the projected monthly cost to the entity of 
                providing medical assistance under the Program to an 
                individual enrolled under the Program in such a 
                geographic area (or areas) for such year.
                    ``(B) Selection.--In selecting from bids submitted 
                under subparagraph (A) for purposes of entering into 
                contracts with eligible entities under this subsection, 
                with respect to a coverage gap geographic area, the 
                Secretary shall take into account at least each of the 
                following, with respect to each such bid:
                            ``(i) Network adequacy (as proposed in the 
                        submitted bid).
                            ``(ii) The amount, duration, and scope of 
                        benefits (such as value-added services offered 
                        in the submitted bid), as compared to the 
                        minimum set of benefits established by the 
                        Secretary under subsection (a)(2)(A).
                            ``(iii) The amount of the bid, taking into 
                        account the average per member cost of 
                        providing medical assistance under State plans 
                        under this title (or waivers of such plans) to 
                        individuals enrolled in such plans (or waivers) 
                        who are at least 18 years of age and residing 
                        in the coverage gap geographic area, as well as 
                        the average cost of providing medical 
                        assistance under State plans under this title 
                        (and waivers of such plans) to individuals 
                        described in section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII).
                            ``(iv) The organizational capacity of the 
                        entity, the experience of the entity with 
                        Medicaid managed care, the experience of the 
                        entity with Medicaid managed care for 
                        individuals described in section 
                        1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII), the performance of the 
                        entity (if available) on the adult core set 
                        quality measures in States that are not 
                        coverage gap States.
            ``(3) Contract with medicaid managed care organization.--In 
        the case of a contract under paragraph (1) between the 
        Secretary and an eligible entity administering benefits under 
        the Program as a Medicaid managed care organization, with 
        respect to one or more coverage gap geographic areas, the 
        following shall apply:
                    ``(A) The provisions of clauses (i) through (xi) of 
                section 1903(m)(2)(A), clause (xii) of such section (to 
                the extent such clause relates to subsections (b), (d), 
                (f), and (i) of section 1932), and clause (xiii) of 
                such section 1903(m)(2)(A) shall, to the greatest 
                extent practicable, apply to the contract, to the 
                Secretary, and to the Medicaid managed care 
                organization, with respect to providing medical 
                assistance under the Federal Medicaid program with 
                respect to such area (or areas), in the same manner and 
                to the same extent as such provisions apply to a 
                contract under section 1903(m) between a State and an 
                entity that is a medicaid managed care organization (as 
                defined in section 1903(m)(1)), to the State, and to 
                the entity, with respect to providing medical 
                assistance to individuals eligible for benefits under 
                this title.
                    ``(B) The provisions of section 1932(h) shall apply 
                to the contract, Secretary, and Medicaid managed care 
                organization.
                    ``(C) The contract shall provide that the entity 
                pay claims in a timely manner and in accordance with 
                the provisions of section 1902(a)(37).
                    ``(D) The contract shall provide that the Secretary 
                shall make payments under this section to the entity, 
                with respect to coverage of each individual enrolled 
                under the Program in such a coverage gap geographic 
                area with respect to which the entity administers the 
                Program in an amount specified in the contract, subject 
                to subparagraph (D)(ii) and paragraph (6).
                    ``(E) The contract shall require--
                            ``(i) the application of a minimum medical 
                        loss ratio (as calculated under subsection (d) 
                        of section 438.8 of title 42, Code of Federal 
                        Regulations (or any successor regulation)) for 
                        payment for medical assistance administered by 
                        the managed care organization under the 
                        Program, with respect to a year, that is equal 
                        to or greater than 85 percent (or such higher 
                        percent as specified by the Secretary); and
                            ``(ii) in the case, with respect to a year, 
                        the minimum medical loss ratio (as so 
                        calculated) for payment for services under the 
                        benefits so administered is less than 85 
                        percent (or such higher percent as specified by 
                        the Secretary under clause (i)), remittance by 
                        the organization to the Secretary of any 
                        payments (or portions of payments) made to the 
                        organization under this section in an amount 
                        equal to the difference in payments for medical 
                        assistance, with respect to the year, resulting 
                        from the organization's failure to meet such 
                        ratio for such year.
                    ``(F) The contract shall require that the eligible 
                entity submit to the Secretary--
                            ``(i) the number of individuals enrolled in 
                        the Program with respect to each coverage gap 
                        geographic area and month with respect to which 
                        the contract applies;
                            ``(ii) encounter data (disaggregated by 
                        race, ethnicity, and age) with respect to each 
                        coverage gap geographic area and month with 
                        respect to which the contract applies; and
                            ``(iii) such additional information as 
                        specified by the Secretary for purposes of 
                        payment, program integrity, oversight, quality 
                        measurement, or such other purpose specified by 
                        the Secretary.
                    ``(G) The contract shall require that the eligible 
                entity perform any other activity identified by the 
                Secretary.
            ``(4) Contract with a third party plan administrator.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of a contract under 
                paragraph (1) between the Secretary and an eligible 
                entity to administer the Program as a third party plan 
                administrator, with respect to one or more coverage gap 
                geographic areas, such contract shall provide that, 
                with respect to medical assistance provided under the 
                Federal Medicaid program to individuals who are 
                enrolled in the Program with respect to such area (or 
                areas)--
                            ``(i) the third party plan administrator 
                        shall, consistent with such requirements as may 
                        be established by the Secretary--
                                    ``(I) establish provider networks, 
                                payment rates, and utilization 
                                management, consistent with the 
                                provisions of section 1902(a)(30)(A), 
                                as applied by subsection (a)(4) of this 
                                section;
                                    ``(II) pay claims in a timely 
                                manner and in accordance with the 
                                provisions of section 1902(a)(37);
                                    ``(III) submit to the Secretary--
                                            ``(aa) the number of 
                                        individuals enrolled in the 
                                        Program with respect to each 
                                        coverage gap geographic area 
                                        and month with respect to which 
                                        the contract applies;
                                            ``(bb) encounter data 
                                        (disaggregated by race, 
                                        ethnicity, and age) with 
                                        respect to each coverage gap 
                                        geographic area and month with 
                                        respect to which the contract 
                                        applies; and
                                            ``(cc) such additional 
                                        information as specified by the 
                                        Secretary for purposes of 
                                        payment, program integrity, 
                                        oversight, quality measurement, 
                                        or such other purpose specified 
                                        by the Secretary; and
                                    ``(IV) perform any other activity 
                                identified by the Secretary;
                            ``(ii) the Secretary shall make payments 
                        (for the claims submitted by the third party 
                        plan administrator and for an economic and 
                        efficient administrative fee) under this 
                        section to the third party plan administrator, 
                        with respect to coverage of each individual 
                        enrolled under the Program in a coverage gap 
                        geographic area with respect to which the third 
                        party plan administrator administers the 
                        Program in an amount determined under the 
                        contract, subject to subclause (VI)(bb) and 
                        paragraph (7); and
                            ``(iii) the provisions of clause (xii) of 
                        section 1903(m)(2)(A) (to the extent such 
                        clause relates to subsections (b), (d), (f), 
                        and (i) of section 1932) shall, to the greatest 
                        extent practicable, apply to the contract, to 
                        the Secretary, and to the third party plan 
                        administrator, with respect to providing 
                        medical assistance under the Federal Medicaid 
                        program with respect to such area (or areas), 
                        in the same manner and to the same extent as 
                        such provisions apply to a contract under 
                        section 1903(m) between a State and an entity 
                        that is a medicaid managed care organization 
                        (as defined in section 1903(m)(1)), to the 
                        State, and to the entity, with respect to 
                        providing medical assistance to individuals 
                        eligible for benefits under this title
                    ``(B) Third party plan administrator defined.--For 
                purposes of this section, the term `third party plan 
                administrator' means an entity that satisfies such 
                requirements as established by the Secretary, which 
                shall include at least that such an entity administers 
                health plan benefits, pays claims under the plan, 
                establishes provider networks, sets payment rates, and 
                are not risk-bearing entities.
            ``(5) Administrative authority.--The Secretary may take 
        such actions as are necessary to administer this subsection, 
        including by setting network adequacy standards, establishing 
        quality requirements, establishing reporting requirements, 
        limiting administrative costs, and specifying any other program 
        requirements or standards necessary in contracting with 
        specified entities under this subsection, and overseeing such 
        entities, with respect to the administration of the Federal 
        Medicaid program.
            ``(6) Preemption.--In carrying out the duties under a 
        contract entered into under paragraph (1) between the Secretary 
        and a Medicaid managed care organization or a third party plan 
        administrator, with respect to a coverage gap State--
                    ``(A) the Secretary may establish minimum standards 
                and licensure requirements for such a Medicaid managed 
                care organization or third party plan administrator for 
                purposes of carrying out such duties; and
                    ``(B) any provisions of law of that State which 
                relate to the licensing of the organization or 
                administrator and which prohibit the organization or 
                administrator from providing coverage pursuant to a 
                contract under this section shall be superseded.
            ``(7) Penalties.--In the case of an eligible entity with a 
        contract under this section that fails to comply with the 
        requirements of such entity pursuant to this section or such 
        contract, the Secretary may withhold payment (or any portion of 
        such payment) to such entity under this section in accordance 
        with a process specified by the Secretary, impose a corrective 
        action plan on such entity, terminate the contract, or impose a 
        civil monetary penalty on such entity in an amount not to 
        exceed $10,000 for each such failure. In implementing this 
        paragraph, the Secretary shall have the authorities provided 
        the Secretary under section 1932(e) and subparts F and I of 
        part 438 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations.
            ``(8) Coverage gap geographic area.--For purposes of this 
        section, the term `coverage gap geographic area' means an area 
        of one or more coverage gap States, as specified by the 
        Secretary, or any area within such a State, as specified by the 
        Secretary.
    ``(c) Periodic Data Matching.--The Secretary shall, including 
through contract, periodically verify the income of an individual 
enrolled in the Federal Medicaid program for a year, before the end of 
such year, to determine if there has been any change in the 
individual's eligibility for benefits under the program. For purposes 
of the previous sentence, in the case that, pursuant to such 
verification, an individual is determined to have had a change in 
income that results in such individual no longer be included as an 
individual described in section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII), the Secretary 
shall apply the same processes and protections as States are required 
under this title to apply with respect to an individual who is 
determined to have had a change in income that results in such 
individual no longer being included as eligible for medical assistance 
under this title (other than pursuant to this section).
    ``(d) Drug Rebates.--For purposes of subsection (a)(2)(C), in 
applying section 1927, the Secretary shall (either directly or through 
contracts)--
            ``(1) require an eligible entity with a contract under 
        subsection (b) to report the data required to be reported under 
        section 1927(b)(2) by a State agency and require such entity to 
        submit to the Secretary rebate data, utilization data, and any 
        other information that would otherwise be required under 
        section 1927 to be submitted to the Secretary by a State;
            ``(2) shall take such actions as are necessary and develop 
        or adapt such processes and mechanisms as are necessary to 
        report and collect data as is necessary and to bill and track 
        rebates under section 1927, as applied pursuant to subsection 
        (a)(2)(B) for drugs that are provided under the Federal 
        Medicaid program;
            ``(3) provide that the coverage requirements of 
        prescription drugs under the Federal Medicaid program comply 
        with the coverage requirements under section 1927;
            ``(4) require that in order for payment to be available 
        under the Federal Medicaid program or under section 1903(a) for 
        covered outpatient drugs of a manufacturer, the manufacturer 
        must have entered into and have in effect a rebate agreement to 
        provide rebates under section 1927 to the Federal Medicaid 
        program in the same form and manner as the manufacturer is 
        required to provide rebates under an agreement described in 
        section 1927(b) to a State Medicaid program under this title;
            ``(5) require an eligible entity with a contract under 
        subsection (b) to provide for a drug use review program 
        described in subsection (g) of section 1927 in accordance with 
        the requirements applicable to a State under such subsection 
        (g) with respect to a drug use review program; and
            ``(6) adopt a mechanism to prevent the requirements of 
        section 1927 from applying to covered outpatient drugs under 
        the Federal Medicaid program pursuant to this subsection and 
        subsection (a)(2)(C) if such drugs are subject to discounts 
        under section 340B of the Public Health Service Act.
    ``(e) Transitions.--
            ``(1) From exchange plans onto federal medicaid program.--
        The Secretary shall provide for a process under which, in the 
        case of individuals entitled to medical assistance pursuant 
        section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) who are enrolled in qualified 
        health plans through an Exchange in a coverage gap State, the 
        Secretary takes such steps as are necessary to transition such 
        individuals to coverage under the Federal Medicaid program. 
        Such process shall apply procedures described in section 
        1943(b)(1)(C) to screen for eligibility and enrollment under 
        the Federal Medicaid program in the same manner as such 
        procedures screen for eligibility and enrollment under 
        qualified health plans through an Exchange established under 
        title I of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
            ``(2) In case coverage gap state begins providing coverage 
        under state plan.--The Secretary shall provide for a process 
        for, in the case of a coverage gap State in which the State 
        begins to provide medical assistance to individuals described 
        in section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) under the State plan (or 
        waiver of such plan) and the Federal Medicaid program ceases to 
        be offered, transitioning individuals from such program to the 
        State plan (or waiver), as eligible, including a process for 
        transitioning all eligibility redeterminations.
            ``(3) Authority for phase-in.--The Secretary may apply 
        section 1902(a)(34), pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(B) of this 
        section, in accordance with such phased-in implementation as 
        the Secretary deems necessary, but beginning as soon as 
        practicable.
    ``(f) Coordination With and Enrollment Through Exchanges.--The 
Secretary shall take such actions as are necessary to provide, in the 
case of a coverage gap State in which the Federal Medicaid program is 
offered, for the availability of information on, determinations of 
eligibility for, and enrollment in such program through and coordinated 
with the Exchange established with respect to such State under title I 
of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
    ``(g) Third Party Liability.--The provisions of section 1902(a)(25) 
shall apply with respect to the Federal Medicaid program, the 
Secretary, and the eligible entities with a contract under subsection 
(b) in the same manner as such provisions apply with respect to State 
plans under this title (or waiver of such plans) and the State or local 
agency administering such plan (or waiver). The Secretary may specify a 
timeline (which may include a phase-in) for implementing this 
subsection.
    ``(h) Fraud And Abuse Provisions.--Provisions of law (other than 
criminal law provisions) identified by the Secretary, in consultation 
(as appropriate) with the Inspector General of the Department of Health 
and Human Services, that impose sanctions with respect to waste, fraud, 
and abuse under this title or title XI, such as the False Claims Act 
(31 U.S.C. 3729 et seq.), as well as provisions of law (other than 
criminal law provisions) identified by the Secretary that provide 
oversight authority, shall also apply to the Federal Medicaid program.
    ``(i) Maintenance of Effort.--
            ``(1) Payment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of a State that, as 
                of January 1, 2022, is expending amounts for all 
                individuals described in section 
                1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) under the State plan (or waiver 
                of such plan) and that stops expending amounts for all 
                such individuals under the State plan (or waiver of 
                such plan), such State shall for each quarter beginning 
                after January 1, 2022, during which such State does not 
                expend amounts for all such individuals provide for 
                payment under this subsection to the Secretary of the 
                product of--
                            ``(i) 10 percent of, subject to 
                        subparagraph (B), the average monthly per 
                        capita costs expended under the State plan (or 
                        waiver of such plan) for such individuals 
                        during the most recent previous quarter with 
                        respect to which the State expended amounts for 
                        all such individuals; and
                            ``(ii) the sum, for each month during such 
                        quarter, of the number of individuals enrolled 
                        under such program in such State.
                    ``(B) Annual increase.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A), in the case of a State with respect 
                to which such subparagraph applies with respect to a 
                period of consecutive quarters occurring during more 
                than one calendar year, for such consecutive quarters 
                occurring during the second of such calendar years or a 
                subsequent calendar year, the average monthly per 
                capita costs for each such quarter for such State 
                determined under subparagraph (A)(i), or this 
                subparagraph, shall be annually increased by the 
                Secretary by the percentage increase in Medicaid 
                spending under this title during the preceding year (as 
                determined based on the most recent National Health 
                Expenditure data with respect to such year).
            ``(2) Form and manner of payment.--Payment under paragraph 
        (1) shall be made in a form and manner specified by the 
        Secretary.
            ``(3) Compliance.--If a State fails to pay to the Secretary 
        an amount required under paragraph (1), interest shall accrue 
        on such amount at the rate provided under section 1903(d)(5). 
        The amount so owed and applicable interest shall be immediately 
        offset against amounts otherwise payable to the State under 
        section 1903(a), in accordance with the Federal Claims 
        Collection Act of 1996 and applicable regulations.
            ``(4) Data match.--The Secretary shall perform such 
        periodic data matches as may be necessary to identify and 
        compute the number of individuals enrolled under the Federal 
        Medicaid program under section 1948 in a coverage gap State (as 
        referenced in subsection (a) of such section) for purposes of 
        computing the amount under paragraph (1).
            ``(5) Notice.--The Secretary shall notify each State 
        described in paragraph (1) not later than a date specified by 
        the Secretary that is before the beginning of each quarter 
        (beginning with 2022) of the amount computed under paragraph 
        (1) for the State for that year.
    ``(j) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for each fiscal year such sums as are necessary to carry 
out subsections (a) through (i) of this section.''.
    (b) Drug Rebate Conforming Amendment.--Section 1927(a)(1) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r-8(a)(1)) is amended in the first 
sentence--
            (1) by striking ``or under part B of title XVIII'' and 
        inserting ``, under the Federal Medicaid program under section 
        1948, or under part B of title XVIII''; and
            (2) by inserting ``including as such subsection is applied 
        pursuant to subsections (a)(2)(C) and (d) of section 1948 with 
        respect to the Federal Medicaid program,'' before ``and must 
        meet''.
