---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# PART 3 - OTHER MEDICAID

SEC. 30721. PERMANENT EXTENSION OF MEDICAID PROTECTIONS AGAINST SPOUSAL 
              IMPOVERISHMENT FOR RECIPIENTS OF HOME AND COMMUNITY-BASED 
              SERVICES.

    Section 1924(h)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r-
5(h)(1)(A)) is amended by striking ``(at the option of the State) is 
described in section 1902(a)(10)(A)(ii)(VI)'' and inserting the 
following: ``is eligible for medical assistance for home and community-
based services provided under subsection (c), (d), or (i) of section 
1915 or under a waiver approved under section 1115, or who is eligible 
for such medical assistance by reason of being determined eligible 
under section 1902(a)(10)(C) or by reason of section 1902(f) or 
otherwise on the basis of a reduction of income based on costs incurred 
for medical or other remedial care, or who is eligible for medical 
assistance for home and community-based attendant services and supports 
under section 1915(k)''.

SEC. 30722. PERMANENT EXTENSION OF MONEY FOLLOWS THE PERSON REBALANCING 
              DEMONSTRATION.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (h) of section 6071 of the Deficit 
Reduction Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (I), by inserting ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (B) by amending subparagraph (J) to read as 
                follows:
                    ``(J) $450,000,000 for each fiscal year after 
                fiscal year 2021.''; and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (K);
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``September 30, 2023'' 
        and inserting ``September 30 of the subsequent fiscal year''; 
        and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Technical assistance.--Out of the amounts made 
        available under paragraph (1), for the 3-year period beginning 
        with fiscal year 2022 and for each subsequent 3-year period, 
        $5,000,000 shall be made available for carrying out subsection 
        (f) and (i).''.
    (b) Redistribution of Unexpended Grant Awards.--Subsection (e)(2) 
of section 6071 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 1396a 
note) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``Any 
portion of a State grant award for a fiscal year under this section 
that is unexpended by the State at the end of the fourth succeeding 
fiscal year shall be rescinded by the Secretary and added to the 
appropriation for the fifth succeeding fiscal year.''.

SEC. 30723. EXTENDING CONTINUOUS MEDICAID COVERAGE FOR PREGNANT AND 
              POSTPARTUM WOMEN.

    (a) Requiring Full Benefits for Pregnant and Postpartum Women for 
12-month Period Post Pregnancy.--
            (1) In general.--Paragraph (5) of section 1902(e) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(e)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``(5) A woman who'' and inserting 
                ``(5)(A) For any fiscal year quarter with respect to 
                which the amendments made by section 30723(a)(1)(B) of 
                the Act titled `An Act to provide for reconciliation 
                pursuant to title II of S. Con. Res. 14' do not apply 
                (beginning with the first fiscal year quarter beginning 
                one year after the date of the enactment of such Act), 
                a woman who''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
            ``(B) For any fiscal year quarter (beginning with the first 
        fiscal year quarter beginning one year after the date of the 
        enactment of this subparagraph), any individual who, while 
        pregnant, is eligible for and received medical assistance under 
        the State plan or a waiver of such plan (regardless of the 
        basis for the individual's eligibility for medical assistance 
        and including during a period of retroactive eligibility under 
        subsection (a)(34)), shall remain eligible, notwithstanding 
        section 1916(c)(3) or any other limitation under this title, 
        for medical assistance through the end of the month in which 
        the 12-month period (beginning on the last day of pregnancy of 
        the individual) ends, and such medical assistance shall be in 
        accordance with clauses (i) and (ii) of paragraph (16)(B).''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Title XIX of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) in section 1902(a)(10), in the matter following 
                subparagraph (G), by striking ``(VII) the medical 
                assistance'' and all that follows through ``, (VIII)'' 
                and inserting ``(VIII)'';
                    (B) in section 1902(e)(6), by striking ``In the 
                case of'' and inserting ``For any fiscal year quarter 
                with respect to which the amendments made by section 
                30723(a)(1)(B) of the Act titled `An Act to provide for 
                reconciliation pursuant to title II of S. Con. Res. 14' 
                do not apply (beginning with the first fiscal year 
                quarter beginning one year after the date of the 
                enactment of such Act), in the case of'';
                    (C) in section 1902(l)(1)(A), by striking ``60-day 
                period'' and inserting ``12-month period'';
                    (D) in section 1903(v)(4)(A)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by striking ``60-day 
                        period'' and inserting ``12-month period (or, 
                        for any fiscal year quarter with respect to 
                        which the amendments made by section 
                        30723(a)(1)(B) of the Act titled `An Act to 
                        provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II 
                        of S. Con. Res. 14' do not apply (beginning 
                        with the first fiscal year quarter beginning 
                        one year after the date of the enactment of 
                        such Act), 60-day period)''; and
                            (ii) in clause (ii), by inserting ``and 
                        including an individual to whom section 
                        1902(e)(5)(B) applies, in accordance with such 
                        section, through the end of the month in which 
                        the 12-month period (beginning on the last day 
                        of pregnancy of the individual) ends'' before 
                        the period at the end; and
                    (E) in section 1905(a), in the 4th sentence in the 
                matter following paragraph (31), by striking ``60-day 
                period'' and inserting ``12-month period (or, for any 
                fiscal year quarter with respect to which the 
                amendments made by section 30723(a)(1)(B) of the Act 
                titled `An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant 
                to title II of S. Con. Res. 14' do not apply (beginning 
                with the first fiscal year quarter beginning one year 
                after the date of the enactment of such Act), 60-day 
                period)''.
    (b) Transition From State Option.--Section 1902(e)(16)(A) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(e)(16)(A)) is amended by striking 
``At the option of the State'' and inserting ``For any fiscal year 
quarter with respect to which the amendments made by section 
30723(a)(1)(B) of the Act titled `An Act to provide for reconciliation 
pursuant to title II of S. Con. Res. 14' do not apply (beginning with 
the first fiscal year quarter beginning one year after the date of the 
enactment of such Act), at the option of the State''.
    (c) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the amendments 
        made by this section shall take effect on the 1st day of the 
        1st fiscal year quarter that begins one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act and shall apply with respect to 
        medical assistance provided on or after such date.
            (2) Exception for state legislation.--In the case of a 
        State plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) that the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services determines requires State legislation in order for the 
        plan to meet any requirement imposed by amendments made by this 
        section, the plan shall not be regarded as failing to comply 
        with the requirements of such title solely on the basis of its 
        failure to meet such a requirement before the first day of the 
        first calendar quarter beginning after the close of the first 
        regular session of the State legislature that begins after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act. For purposes of the previous 
        sentence, in the case of a State that has a 2-year legislative 
        session, each year of the session shall be considered to be a 
        separate regular session of the State legislature.

SEC. 30724. PROVIDING FOR 1 YEAR OF CONTINUOUS ELIGIBILITY FOR CHILDREN 
              UNDER THE MEDICAID PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 1902(e) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1396a(e)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (12), by inserting ``before the date of 
        the enactment of paragraph (17)'' after ``subsection 
        (a)(10)(A)''.
            (2) by adding at the end following new paragraph:
            ``(17) 1 year of continuous eligibility for children.--The 
        State plan (or waiver of such State plan) shall provide that an 
        individual who is under the age of 19 and who is determined to 
        be eligible for benefits under a State plan approved under 
        subsection (a)(10)(A) shall remain eligible for such benefits 
        until the earlier of--
                    ``(A) the end of the 12-month period beginning on 
                the date of such determination;
                    ``(B) the time that such individual attains the age 
                of 19; or
                    ``(C) the date that such individual ceases to be a 
                resident of such State.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the amendments 
        made by subsection (a)(2) shall apply with respect to 
        eligibility determinations or redeterminations made on or after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Exception for state legislation.--In the case of a 
        State plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) that the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services determines requires State legislation in order for the 
        plan to meet any requirement imposed by amendments made under 
        subsection (a)(2), the plan shall not be regarded as failing to 
        comply with the requirements of such title solely on the basis 
        of its failure to meet such a requirement before the first day 
        of the first calendar quarter beginning after the close of the 
        first regular session of the State legislature that begins 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act. For purposes of 
        the previous sentence, in the case of a State that has a 2-year 
        legislative session, each year of the session shall be 
        considered to be a separate regular session of the State 
        legislature.

SEC. 30725. ALLOWING FOR MEDICAL ASSISTANCE UNDER MEDICAID FOR INMATES 
              DURING 30-DAY PERIOD PRECEDING RELEASE.

    The subdivision (A) following paragraph (31) of section 1905(a) of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(a)) is amended by inserting 
``and, beginning on the first day of the first fiscal year quarter that 
begins one year after the date of the enactment of the Act titled `An 
Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of S. Con. Res. 
14', except during the 30-day period preceding the date of release of 
such individual from such public institution'' after ``medical 
institution''.

SEC. 30726. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS.

    (b) Express Lane Eligibility Option.--Section 1902(e)(13) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(e)(13)) is amended by striking 
subparagraph (I).
    (c) Conforming Amendments for Assurance of Affordability Standard 
for Children and Families.--Section 1902(gg)(2) of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(gg)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``through 
        september 30, 2027''; and
            (2) by striking ``through September 30'' and all that 
        follows through ``ends on September 30, 2027'' and inserting 
        ``(but beginning on October 1, 2019,''.
