---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# PART 1 - ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION

## SEC. 20001. REBUILD AMERICA'S SCHOOLS GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Department of Education--
            (1) for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
        not otherwise appropriated, $1,270,000,000, to remain available 
        until September 30, 2025, for carrying out this section; and
            (2) for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2024, out of any 
        money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
        $39,643,650,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, 
        for carrying out this section.
    (b) Rebuild America's Schools Grants Authorized.--From funds 
provided under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall award grants in fiscal years 2022 through 2024 to State 
educational agencies in accordance with subsection (c).
    (c) Rebuild America's Schools Grants.--
            (1) Eligibility.--A State educational agency is eligible 
        for an allocation under this section--
                    (A) with respect to fiscal year 2022, for the 
                purpose of public school facilities inventory efforts 
                in accordance with paragraph (3)(A); and
                    (B) with respect to fiscal years 2023 and 2024, if 
                such State educational agency has had approved by the 
                Secretary a State facilities plan developed under 
                paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(I), for the purpose of improving 
                public school facilities in accordance with paragraph 
                (3)(B).
            (2) Allocations to states.--The amount allocated to each 
        State educational agency under paragraph (1) shall be in the 
        same proportion as the amounts distributed to the State under 
        part A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
        of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6311) in the most recent fiscal year, 
        relative to the total amount received under such part by all 
        other States receiving an allocation under this section in such 
        fiscal year.
            (3) State uses of funds.--A State educational agency that 
        receives an allocation under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) with respect to fiscal year 2022, shall use--
                            (i) not less than 80 percent of such 
                        allocation to award subgrants to local 
                        educational agencies (including public charter 
                        schools that are local educational agencies) in 
                        the State, in proportion to the amount of funds 
                        such local educational agencies and charter 
                        schools received under part A of title I of the 
                        Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
                        (20 U.S.C. 6311) in the most recent fiscal 
                        year, to support each such local educational 
                        agency in--
                                    (I) the development and publication 
                                of a local facilities master plan to 
                                address the health, safety, education 
                                equity, enrollment diversity, 
                                environmental sustainability, and 
                                climate resiliency of the public school 
                                facilities operated by such agency; and
                                    (II) the collection and submission 
                                of data to the State educational agency 
                                to support implementation of the State 
                                school facilities database; and
                            (ii) not more than 20 percent of such 
                        allocation to--
                                    (I) develop a State facilities plan 
                                that details--
                                            (aa) how the State will use 
                                        grant funds received under this 
                                        section and State funds to make 
                                        improvements to public school 
                                        facilities of eligible local 
                                        educational agencies to address 
                                        disparities in both the 
                                        financing and expenditures of 
                                        school facilities capital 
                                        outlay projects and in the 
                                        conditions of public school 
                                        facilities between eligible 
                                        local educational agencies and 
                                        other local educational 
                                        agencies in the State;
                                            (bb) how the State will 
                                        develop a competitive process 
                                        to provide subgrants to 
                                        eligible local educational 
                                        agencies, including the State's 
                                        criteria for subgrant 
                                        eligibility; and
                                            (cc) how the State will, in 
                                        carrying out the competitive 
                                        process for subgrants described 
                                        in item (bb), take into 
                                        consideration the impact that 
                                        such subgrants may have on 
                                        increasing student diversity 
                                        and decreasing racial and 
                                        socioeconomic isolation of 
                                        students attending public 
                                        elementary or secondary schools 
                                        improved by such subgrants;
                                    (II) develop and operate (directly 
                                or through grants or contracts) the 
                                State school facilities database; and
                                    (III) provide technical assistance 
                                to local educational agencies in 
                                carrying out activities described in 
                                clause (i) and supports related to the 
                                requirements of paragraph (4) for 
                                eligible local educational agencies; 
                                and
                    (B) with respect to each of fiscal years 2023 and 
                2024, shall--
                            (i) use not less than 90 percent of such 
                        allocation to award subgrants on a competitive 
                        basis to eligible local educational agencies 
                        with approved applications described in 
                        paragraph (4)(A); and
                            (ii) use not more than 10 percent of such 
                        allocation to--
                                    (I) maintain and update (directly 
                                or through grants or contracts) the 
                                State school facilities database;
                                    (II) provide technical assistance 
                                to eligible local educational agencies 
                                in the State in carrying out school 
                                facilities capital outlay projects, 
                                including technical assistance 
                                regarding capital construction, energy 
                                efficiency, and climate resiliency;
                                    (III) develop and implement State-
                                level strategies for safe, healthy, 
                                energy efficient, and environmentally 
                                resilient public school facilities that 
                                address--
                                            (aa) indoor air quality;
                                            (bb) water quality;
                                            (cc) energy and water 
                                        efficiency;
                                            (dd) renewable energy and 
                                        decarbonization;
                                            (ee) exposure to toxic 
                                        substances, including mercury, 
                                        radon, polychlorinated 
                                        biphenyls, lead, vapor 
                                        intrusions, and asbestos;
                                            (ff) climate resiliency;
                                            (gg) emergency preparedness 
                                        for natural or man-made 
                                        disasters or emergencies; and
                                            (hh) structural hazards 
                                        created by pyrrhotite, as 
                                        determined by an engineer's 
                                        report and pyrrhotite testing;
                                    (IV) provide professional 
                                development opportunities for State and 
                                local staff involved in maintenance and 
                                operations and school facilities 
                                capital outlay projects; and
                                    (V) administer and monitor the 
                                implementation of subgrants provided 
                                under clause (i).
            (4) Rebuild america's schools subgrants to eligible local 
        educational agencies.--
                    (A) Application.--The State educational agency 
                shall require an eligible local educational agency 
                desiring a subgrant under paragraph (3)(B)(i) to submit 
                an application to the State educational agency that, at 
                a minimum, includes--
                            (i) a certification that the eligible local 
                        educational agency shall use subgrant funds for 
                        school facilities capital outlay projects that 
                        prioritize the improvement of the public school 
                        facilities of such agency that serve the 
                        highest numbers or percentages of students who 
                        are eligible for a free or reduced price lunch 
                        under the Richard B. Russell National School 
                        Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751), under a method 
                        established by the Secretary; and
                            (ii) such agency's facilities master plan.
                    (B) Rebuild america's schools subgrant use of 
                funds.--An eligible local educational agency that 
                receives a subgrant under paragraph (3)(B)(i) shall use 
                such funds to carry out school facilities capital 
                outlay projects, including 1 or more of the following:
                            (i) Assessing, planning, designing, 
                        constructing, modernizing, retrofitting, or 
                        decarbonizing public school facilities.
                            (ii) Carrying out major repairs of public 
                        school facilities, including repairs to extend 
                        the life of facilities systems and components 
                        by not less than 10 years.
                            (iii) Upgrading or replacing major 
                        facilities systems, components, furniture, 
                        fixtures, and equipment with a life of not less 
                        than 10 years.
                            (iv) Constructing new public school 
                        facilities, including when student enrollment 
                        exceeds the physical and instructional capacity 
                        of public school facilities.
                            (v) Purchasing and preparing sites on which 
                        public school facilities will be constructed.
                            (vi) Improving energy and water efficiency 
                        in public school facilities, including 
                        improvements related to clean energy.
                            (vii) Reducing or eliminating the presence 
                        of health and safety hazards in public school 
                        facilities, including--
                                    (I) toxic substances, including 
                                mercury, radon, polychlorinated 
                                biphenyls, lead, and asbestos;
                                    (II) mold or mildew;
                                    (III) rodents and pests; and
                                    (IV) structural hazards created by 
                                pyrrhotite.
                            (viii) Improving instructional or outdoor 
                        public school facilities relating to early 
                        learning, special education, science, 
                        technology, career and technical education, 
                        physical education, the arts, literacy 
                        (including library programs), or community-
                        based partnerships.
                            (ix) Improving the public school facilities 
                        of magnet schools, or other instructional 
                        programs, designed to increase student 
                        diversity and decrease racial or socioeconomic 
                        isolation.
                            (x) Supporting independent commissioning 
                        and certification of public school facilities, 
                        public school facility systems, and school 
                        facilities capital outlay projects.
    (d) Conditions.--
            (1) State matching requirement.--
                    (A) In general.--As a condition of receiving an 
                allocation under subsection (c)(1)(B), a State shall 
                contribute, from non-Federal sources, an amount equal 
                to 10 percent of the amount of the allocation received 
                under such subsection to carry out activities supported 
                by such allocation.
                    (B) Exemption.--States that contributed an average 
                of 10 percent or greater toward total local educational 
                agency capital outlay from non-Federal funds, within 
                the most recent 5-year fiscal period, are exempt from 
                the State matching requirement under subparagraph (A).
            (2) State maintenance of effort.--
                    (A) In general.--The State shall provide an 
                assurance to the Secretary that for each fiscal year 
                that the State receives an allocation under this 
                section, the State's share of school facilities capital 
                outlay will be not less than 90 percent of the average 
                of the State's share of school facilities capital 
                outlay for the 5 years preceding the 2020 fiscal year.
                    (B) Waiver.--Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), in 
                response to a request from a State, the Secretary may 
                modify or waive, in whole or in part, the requirement 
                of subparagraph (A) if the Secretary determines that 
                such State demonstrates an exceptional or 
                uncontrollable circumstance, such as a natural 
                disaster, pandemic, or precipitous decline in revenue.
            (3) Supplement not supplant.--As a condition of receiving 
        an allocation under subsection (c)(1)(B), a State shall use 
        funds received under this section only to supplement the level 
        of State and local public funds that would, in the absence of 
        the receipt of Federal funds under this section, be made 
        available for the State's contribution to school facilities 
        capital outlays, and not to supplant those other funds.
    (e) Definitions.--
            (1) ESEA terms.--The terms ``elementary school'', ``local 
        educational agency'', ``secondary school'', and ``State 
        educational agency'' have the meanings given the terms in 
        section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
            (2) Eligible local educational agency.--The term ``eligible 
        local educational agency'' means a local educational agency 
        (including a public charter school that is a local educational 
        agency under State law) in a State that--
                    (A) is identified by the State based on the 
                criteria established under the State facilities plan as 
                among the local educational agencies in such State 
                with--
                            (i) the highest numbers or percentages of 
                        students counted under section 1124(c) of the 
                        Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
                        (20 U.S.C. 6333(c)); or
                            (ii) the most limited capacity to raise 
                        funds for the long-term improvement of public 
                        school facilities, as determined by an 
                        assessment of factors determined by the 
                        Secretary;
                    (B) certifies that any funds received under this 
                section shall be used to prioritize the improvement of 
                public school facilities of public elementary or 
                secondary schools that serve the highest percentages of 
                students who are eligible for a free or reduced price 
                lunch under the Richard B. Russell National School 
                Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751), under a method established 
                by the Secretary; and
                    (C) certifies that any public school facilities 
                improved by funds received under this section are--
                            (i) operated and managed by a public agency 
                        or a non-profit private entity; and
                            (ii)(I) owned or leased from a public 
                        agency; or
                            (II) owned or leased from a private entity, 
                        except that no individual associated with such 
                        private entity may have a financial interest or 
                        management role in the local educational 
                        agency.
            (3) Local facilities master plan.--The term ``local 
        facilities master plan'' means a plan of a local educational 
        agency developed under subsection (c)(3)(A)(i)(I) by the local 
        educational agency, in consultation with local stakeholders, 
        which includes an assessment of such agency's public school 
        facilities, financing of school capital project outlays, and 
        student enrollment levels, and other factors determined by the 
        Secretary.
            (4) Operations and maintenance of school facilities.--The 
        term ``operations and maintenance of school facilities'' means 
        the labor, contracts, and supplies and materials supported by a 
        local educational agency's annual operating budget related to--
                    (A) cleaning, groundskeeping, and preventive and 
                routine maintenance of public school facilities and 
                grounds;
                    (B) minor repairs and operations of building 
                systems and equipment for public school facilities; and
                    (C) payments for utilities for public school 
                facilities.
            (5) Public school facility.--The term ``public school 
        facility'' means a school facility operated by a local 
        educational agency that is primarily used to educate students, 
        including outdoor facilities and grounds, but does not 
        include--
                    (A) a facility that is primarily used for athletic 
                contests or exhibitions or other events for which 
                admission is charged to the general public;
                    (B) a vehicle; or
                    (C) a district central office, operation center, or 
                other school facility if it is not primarily used to 
                educate students.
            (6) School facilities capital outlay project.--The term 
        ``school facilities capital outlay project'' means the 
        assessment, planning, design, construction, renovation, repair, 
        management, and financing of a public school facility project 
        with a life expectancy of at least 10 years, but does not 
        include operations and maintenance of school facilities.
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Education.
            (8) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the 50 States, 
        the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
            (9) State's contribution to school facilities capital 
        outlays.--The term ``State's contribution to school facilities 
        capital outlays'' means the total amount of State 
        appropriations on elementary and secondary education capital 
        expenditures in the State, including--
                    (A) State aid reimbursements for school facilities 
                capital outlay projects;
                    (B) State payment of debt service for school 
                facilities capital outlay projects;
                    (C) direct payment of school facilities capital 
                outlay projects; and
                    (D) grants or facilities allowances to charter 
                schools for facilities capital projects.
            (10) State facilities plan.--The term ``State facilities 
        plan'' means a State's plan developed by the State educational 
        agency, in accordance with subsection (c)(3)(A)(ii)(I) and 
        including plan elements determined by the Secretary, for the 
        purpose of being eligible for an allocation described in 
        subsection (c)(1)(B).
            (11) State school facilities database.--The term ``State 
        school facilities database'' means an electronic, publicly 
        available database maintained by the State educational agency 
        that contains an inventory of the infrastructure of all public 
        school facilities in the State, including the data elements 
        determined by the Secretary.

## SEC. 20002. OUTLYING AREAS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of Education for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $410,900,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, for the Secretary of Education to 
allocate to each outlying area (as defined in section 8101 of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801)) an 
amount in proportion to the amount received by the outlying area under 
part A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
(20 U.S.C. 6311) in the most recent fiscal year relative to the total 
amount received under such part for such fiscal year by all outlying 
areas, to carry out the activities described in section 20001(c) in the 
outlying areas.

## SEC. 20003. IMPACT AID CONSTRUCTION GRANTS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of Education for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $410,900,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, for making payments to local 
educational agencies in accordance with the same terms and conditions 
as the terms and conditions of section 7007 of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7707), except that--
            (1) subsection (a)(2)(A) of such section shall be applied 
        by substituting ``20 percent'' for ``50 percent'';
            (2) subsection (a)(2)(B) of such section shall be applied 
        by substituting ``20 percent'' for ``50 percent''; and
            (3) clauses (i) and (vi) of subsection (b)(5)(A) of such 
        section shall not apply to funds provided or received under 
        this section.

## SEC. 20004. BUREAU OF INDIAN EDUCATION.

     In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Bureau of Indian Education for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated--
            (1) $369,810,000, to remain available until September 30, 
        2026, for necessary expenses related to construction, repair, 
        improvement, and maintenance of buildings, utilities, and other 
        facilities necessary for the operation of Indian education 
        programs, including architectural and engineering services by 
        contract, acquisition of lands, and interests in lands, of 
        which no more than 3 percent shall be used for administrative 
        costs to carry out this section; and
            (2) $41,090,000, to remain available until September 30, 
        2026, for digital infrastructure to improve access to high-
        speed broadband sufficient for digital learning and related 
        digital infrastructure activities or programs operated or 
        funded by the Bureau of Indian Education, for Bureau-funded 
        schools (as defined in section 1141(3) of the Education 
        Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021(3))).

## SEC. 20005. GALLAUDET UNIVERSITY.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of Education for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $150,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, for the Kendall Demonstration 
Elementary School and the Model Secondary School for the Deaf at 
Gallaudet University for construction, as defined in section 201(2) of 
the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986 (20 U.S.C. 4351(2)).

## SEC. 20006. GROW YOUR OWN PROGRAMS.

    (a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Department of Education for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$197,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2025, to award 
grants for the development and support of Grow Your Own Programs, as 
described in section 202(g) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 1022a(g)).
    (b) In General.--Section 202 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
(20 U.S.C. 1022a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(6)(C), by striking ``subsection (f) 
        or (g)'' and inserting ``subsection (f) or (h)'';
            (2) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting ``a Grow Your Own 
        program under subsection (g),'' after ``subsection (e),'';
            (3) by redesignating subsections (g), (h), (i), (j), and 
        (k), as subsections (h), (i), (j), (k), and (l), respectively; 
        and
            (4) by inserting after subsection (f) the following:
    ``(g) Partnership Grants for the Establishment of `Grow Your Own' 
Programs.--
            ``(1) In general.--An eligible partnership that receives a 
        grant under this section shall carry out an effective `Grow 
        Your Own' program to address shortages of teachers in high-need 
        subjects, fields, schools, and geographic areas, or shortages 
        of school leaders in high-need schools, and to increase the 
        diversity of qualified individuals entering into the teacher, 
        principal, or other school leader workforce.
            ``(2) Requirements of a grow your own program.--In addition 
        to carrying out each of the activities described in paragraphs 
        (1) through (6) of subsection (d), an eligible partnership 
        carrying out a Grow Your Own program under this subsection 
        shall--
                    ``(A) integrate career-focused courses on education 
                topics with a year-long school-based clinical 
                experience in which candidates teach or lead alongside 
                an expert mentor teacher or school leader who is the 
                teacher or school leader of record in the same local 
                educational agencies in which the candidates expect to 
                work;
                    ``(B) provide opportunities for candidates to 
                practice and develop teaching skills or school 
                leadership skills;
                    ``(C) support candidates as they complete their 
                associate (in furtherance of their baccalaureate), 
                baccalaureate, or master's degree or earn their 
                teaching or school leadership credential;
                    ``(D) work to provide academic, counseling, and 
                programmatic supports to candidates;
                    ``(E) provide academic and nonacademic supports, 
                including advising and financial assistance, to 
                candidates to enter and complete teacher or school 
                leadership preparation programs and to access and 
                complete State licensure exams;
                    ``(F) include efforts to recruit individuals with 
                experience in high-need subjects or fields who are not 
                certified to teach or lead, with a specific focus on 
                recruiting individuals--
                            ``(i) from groups or populations that are 
                        underrepresented; and
                            ``(ii) who live in and come from the 
                        communities the schools serve;
                    ``(G) evaluate the effectiveness of the program, 
                including, at a minimum, using the data required under 
                section 204(a)(1);
                    ``(H) require candidates to complete all State 
                requirements to become fully certified; and
                    ``(I) provide stipends for candidates to engage in 
                school-based clinical placements.''.

## SEC. 20007. TEACHER RESIDENCIES.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of Education for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $198,000,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2025, to award grants for the 
development and support of high-quality teaching residency programs, as 
described in section 202(e) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 1022a(e)), except that amounts available under this section 
shall be available for residency programs for prospective teachers in a 
bachelor's or master's degree program.

## SEC. 20008. SUPPORT SCHOOL PRINCIPALS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of Education for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $198,000,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2025, to award grants for the 
development and support of school leadership programs, as described in 
section 2243 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 6673).

## SEC. 20009. HAWKINS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of Education for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $198,000,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2025, to award grants for the Augustus 
F. Hawkins Centers of Excellence Program, as described in section 242 
of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1033a).

## SEC. 20010. FUNDING FOR THE INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION 
              PART D PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of Education for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $297,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2025, for personnel development in 
section 662 of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 
U.S.C. 1462).
