---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Subtitle D - HUD and Community Capacity Building

## SEC. 40301. PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION, TRAINING, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, 
              CAPACITY BUILDING, AND USICH.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated,--
            (1) $1,985,000,000 to the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development for--
                    (A) the costs to the Secretary of administering and 
                overseeing the implementation of this title and the 
                Department's programs generally, including information 
                technology, inspections of housing units, research and 
                evaluation, financial reporting, and other costs; and
                    (B) new awards or increasing prior awards to 
                provide training, technical assistance, and capacity 
                building related to the Department's programs, 
                including direct program support to program recipients 
                throughout the country, including insular areas, that 
                require such assistance with daily operations;
            (2) $5,000,000 to the United States Interagency Council on 
        Homelessness for necessary expenses in carrying out the 
        functions of the Council pursuant to title II of the McKinney-
        Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11311 et seq.); and
            (3) $10,000,000 to the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development for necessary salaries and expenses of the Office 
        of the Inspector General of the Department of Housing and Urban 
        Development in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978.
Amounts appropriated by this section shall remain available until 
September 30, 2031.
    (b) Implementation.--The Secretary shall have authority to issue 
such regulations or other notices, guidance, forms, instructions, and 
publications as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
programs, projects, or activities authorized under this section, 
including to ensure that such programs, projects, or activities are 
completed in a timely and effective manner.

SEC. 40302. COMMUNITY-LED CAPACITY BUILDING.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise made 
available, there is appropriated to the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development (in this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated--
            (1) $90,000,000 for competitively awarded funds for 
        technical assistance and capacity building to non-Federal 
        entities, including nonprofit organizations that can provide 
        technical assistance activities to community development 
        corporations, community housing development organizations, 
        community land trusts, nonprofit organizations in insular 
        areas, and other mission-driven and nonprofit organizations 
        that target services to low-income and socially disadvantaged 
        populations, and provide services in neighborhoods having high 
        concentrations of minority, low-income, or socially 
        disadvantaged populations to--
                    (A) provide training, education, support, and 
                advice to enhance the technical and administrative 
                capabilities of community development corporations, 
                community housing development organizations, community 
                land trusts, and other mission-driven and nonprofit 
                organizations seeking to undertake affordable housing 
                development, acquisition, preservation, or 
                rehabilitation activities;
                    (B) provide grants or predevelopment assistance to 
                community development corporations, community housing 
                development organizations, and other mission-driven and 
                nonprofit organizations seeking to undertake affordable 
                housing development, acquisition, preservation, or 
                rehabilitation activities; and
                    (C) carry out such other activities as may be 
                determined by the grantees in consultation with the 
                Secretary; and
            (2) $10,000,000 for the costs to the Secretary of 
        administering and overseeing the implementation of this section 
        and the Department's technical assistance programs generally, 
        including information technology, research and evaluations, 
        financial reporting, fair housing compliance, and other cross-
        program costs in support of programs administered by the 
        Secretary in this title and other costs; the Secretary may 
        transfer and merge amounts set aside under this subsection to 
        section 40301.
Amounts appropriated by this section shall remain available until 
September 30, 2031.
    (b) Implementation.--The Secretary shall have authority to issue 
such regulations or other notices, guidance, forms, instructions, and 
publications as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
programs, projects, or activities authorized under this section, 
including to ensure that such programs, projects, or activities are 
completed in a timely and effective manner.
