---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Subtitle B - 21st Century Sustainable and Equitable Communities

## SEC. 40101. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT FUNDING FOR AFFORDABLE 
              HOUSING AND INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
(in this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated--
            (1) $6,600,000,000 for grants to grantees under section 106 
        of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 
        U.S.C.5306) under the community development block grant program 
        under title I of such Act, subject to subsection (b) of this 
        section, except that for purposes of amounts made available by 
        this paragraph, paragraph (2) of such section 106(a) shall be 
        applied by substituting ``$70,000,000'' for ``$7,000,000'';
            (2) $1,000,000,000 for assistance to community development 
        block grant grantees, as determined by the Secretary, under 
        section 106 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
        1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306), only for colonias, to address the 
        community and housing infrastructure needs of existing colonia 
        residents based on a formula that takes into account persons in 
        poverty in the colonia areas, except that grantees may use 
        funds in colonias outside of the 150-mile border area upon 
        approval of the Secretary;
            (3) $500,000,000 for grants under the community development 
        block grant program under title I of the Housing and Community 
        Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) to eligible 
        recipients under subsection (d) of this section for 
        manufactured housing infrastructure improvements in eligible 
        manufactured home communities;
            (4) $300,000,000 for the costs to the Secretary of 
        administering and overseeing the implementation of this 
        section, the Community Development Block Grant program, and the 
        manufactured home construction and safety standards program 
        generally, including information technology, financial 
        reporting, research and evaluations, fair housing compliance, 
        other cross-program costs in support of programs administered 
        by the Secretary in this title, and other costs; and the 
        Secretary may transfer and merge amounts set aside under this 
        paragraph to section 40301; and
            (5) $100,000,000 for providing technical assistance to 
        recipients of or applicants for grants under this section.
Amounts appropriated by this section shall remain available until 
September 30, 2031.
    (b) Housing Construction.--Expenditures on new construction of 
housing shall be an eligible expense for a recipient of funds made 
available under this section that is not a recipient of funds under 
title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 
U.S.C. 42 U.S.C. 12721 et seq.).
    (c) Manufactured Housing Community Improvement Grant Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development shall carry out a competitive grant program to 
        award funds appropriated under subsection (a)(4) to eligible 
        recipients to carry out eligible projects for improvements in 
        eligible manufactured home communities.
            (2) Eligible projects.--Amounts from grants under this 
        subsection shall be used only to assist in carrying out a 
        project for construction, reconstruction, repair, or clearance 
        of housing, facilities and improvements in or serving a 
        manufactured housing community that--
                    (A) is critically needed to protect the health and 
                safety of the residents of the manufactured housing 
                community and the long-term sustainability of the 
                community;
                    (B) can be commenced expeditiously assisted by a 
                grant under this subsection; and
                    (C) includes activities--
                            (i) eligible under the community 
                        development block grant program under title I 
                        of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
                        1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.);
                            (ii) to facilitate installation, including 
                        foundation construction for new manufactured 
                        homes, as defined in section 603 of the 
                        National Manufactured Construction and Safety 
                        Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5402) and 
                        regulated under associated regulations, and 
                        previously sold certified manufactured homes; 
                        or
                            (iii) to mitigate flood risk.
            (3) Criteria.--The Secretary shall prioritize awards under 
        this section by the extent to which the project will assist 
        low-income families and preserve long-term housing 
        affordability for residents of an eligible manufactured home 
        community.
    (d) Waivers.--The Secretary may waive or specify alternative 
requirements for any provision of title I of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) or regulation that the 
Secretary administers in connection with use of amounts made available 
under this section other than requirements related to fair housing, 
nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment, upon a finding 
that the waiver or alternative requirement is necessary to expedite or 
facilitate the use of amounts made available under this section.
    (e) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the following 
definitions shall apply:
            (1) Colonia area.--The term ``colonia area'' means any 
        census tract that--
                    (A) is an area of the United States within 150 
                miles of the contiguous border between the United 
                States and Mexico, except as otherwise determined by 
                the Secretary; and
                    (B) lacks potable water supply, adequate sewage 
                systems, and lack of decent, safe, sanitary housing, 
                and other objective criteria as approved by the 
                Secretary.
            (2) Eligible manufactured home community.--The term 
        ``eligible manufactured home community'' means a community 
        that--
                    (A) meets the affordable housing safe harbor 
                requirements of the Internal Revenue Service under 
                section 601.201 of title 26, Code of Federal 
                Regulations; and
                    (B)(i) is owned by the residents of the 
                manufactured housing community through a resident-
                controlled entity, as defined by the Secretary, in 
                which at least two-thirds of residents are member-
                owners of the land-owning entity; or
                    (ii) the Secretary otherwise determines is subject 
                to such binding agreements as are necessary to ensure 
                that the manufactured housing community will be 
                maintained as such a community, and affordable for low-
                income families (as such term is defined in section 104 
                of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing 
                Act (42 U.S.C. 12704)), on a long-term basis.
            (3) Eligible recipient.--The term ``eligible recipient'' 
        means a partnership of--
                    (A) a grantee under section 106 of the Housing and 
                Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C.5306); and
                    (B) an eligible manufactured home community, a 
                nonprofit entity, or a consortia of nonprofit entities 
                working with an eligible manufactured home community.
            (4) Manufactured home community.--The term ``manufactured 
        home community'' means any community, court, or park equipped 
        to accommodate manufactured homes for which pad sites, with or 
        without existing manufactured homes or other allowed homes, or 
        other suitable sites, are used primarily for residential 
        purposes, with any additional requirements as determined by the 
        Secretary, including any manufactured housing community as such 
        term is used for purposes of the program of the Federal 
        National Mortgage Association for multifamily loans for 
        manufactured housing communities and the program of the Federal 
        Home Loan Mortgage Corporation for loans for manufactured 
        housing communities.
    (f) Implementation.--The Secretary shall have authority to issue 
such regulations or other notices, guidance, forms, instructions, and 
publications as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
programs, projects, or activities authorized under this section, 
including to ensure that such programs, projects, or activities are 
completed in a timely and effective manner.

SEC. 40102. LEAD-BASED PAINT HAZARD CONTROL AND HOUSING-RELATED HEALTH 
              AND SAFETY HAZARD MITIGATION IN HOUSING OF FAMILIES WITH 
              LOWER INCOMES.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise made 
available, there is appropriated to the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development (in this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated--
            (1) $6,430,000,000 for grants to States, units of general 
        local government, Indian tribes or their tribally designated 
        housing entities, and nonprofit organizations for the 
        activities under subsection (c) in target housing units, and 
        common areas servicing such units, where low-income families 
        reside or are expected to reside that is not public housing, 
        housing assisted by project-based rental assistance under 
        section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
        1437f), including under subsection (o)(13) of such section, nor 
        housing assisted under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 
        (12 U.S.C. 1701q) or section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez 
        National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013);
            (2) $500,000,000 for grants to State or local governments 
        or nonprofit entities for the activities in subsection (c) in 
        target housing units, and common areas servicing such units, 
        that are being assisted under the Weatherization Assistance 
        Program authorized under title IV of the Energy Conservation 
        and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6851 et seq.) but are not public 
        housing, housing assisted by project-based rental assistance 
        under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
        U.S.C. 1437f), including under subsection (o)(13) of such 
        section, nor housing assisted under section 202 of the Housing 
        Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q) or section 811 of the Cranston-
        Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013);
            (3) $2,000,000,000 for grants to owners of a property 
        receiving project-based rental assistance under section 8 of 
        the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), 
        including under subsection (o)(13) of such section, that meets 
        the definition of target housing and that has not received a 
        grant for similar purposes under this Act for the activities in 
        subsection (c), except subsection (c)(2), in target housing 
        units receiving such assistance and common areas servicing such 
        units;
            (4) $810,000,000 for costs related to training and 
        technical assistance to support identification and mitigation 
        of lead and housing-related health and safety hazards, 
        research, and evaluation related to activities under this 
        section; and
            (5) $260,000,000 for the costs to the Secretary of 
        administering and overseeing the implementation of this 
        section, and the Secretary's lead hazard reduction and related 
        programs generally including information technology, financial 
        reporting, research and evaluations, other cross-program costs 
        in support of programs administered by the Secretary in this 
        Act, and other costs; the Secretary may transfer and merge 
        amounts appropriated under this paragraph to section 40301.
Amounts appropriated by this section shall remain available until 
September 30, 2031.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--
            (1) Income eligibility determinations.--Notwithstanding any 
        inconsistent requirements, the Secretary may make income 
        determinations of eligibility for enrollment of housing units 
        for grants awarded under--
                    (A) subsection (a)(1) using criteria under title I 
                of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 
                (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), title II of the Cranston-
                Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 
                12701 et seq.), section 8 of the United States Housing 
                Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), title IV of the Energy 
                Conservation and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6851 et 
                seq.), section 2605 of the Low-Income Home Energy 
                Assistance Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 8624), or section 
                2044 of title 38, United States Code, as determined 
                appropriate by the Secretary;
                    (B) subsection (a)(2) using criteria under section 
                8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
                1437f) or title IV of the Energy Conservation and 
                Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6851 et seq.).
            (2) Housing families with young children.--An owner of 
        rental property that receives assistance under subsection 
        (a)(3) shall give priority in renting units for which the lead-
        based paint has been abated pursuant to subsection (a)(3), for 
        not less than 3 years following the completion of lead 
        abatement activities, to families with a child under the age of 
        6 years.
            (3) Administrative expenses.--A recipient of a grant under 
        this section may use up to 10 percent of the grant for 
        administrative expenses associated with the activities funded 
        by this section.
    (c) Eligible Activities.--Grants awarded under this section shall 
be used for--
            (1) abatement of lead-based paint in target housing;
            (2) interim controls of lead-based paint hazards in target 
        housing;
            (3) lead-based paint inspections;
            (4) lead risk assessments;
            (5) lead hazard control clearance examinations;
            (6) testing for housing-related health and safety hazards;
            (7) mitigation of housing-related health and safety 
        hazards, including lead faucets, fixtures, and interior lines;
            (8) technical assistance;
            (9) providing work practices training to local residents;
            (10) outreach and engagement with community stakeholders, 
        including stakeholders in disadvantaged communities;
            (11) capacity building;
            (12) program evaluation and research;
            (13) environmental reviews; or
            (14) activities that directly or indirectly support the 
        work under this section, as applicable, that without which such 
        activities could not be conducted.
    (d) Environmental Review.--For purposes of environmental review 
pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
4321 et seq.) and other provisions of law that further the purposes of 
such Act, a grant under subsection (a) of this section shall be 
considered funds for a special project for purposes of section 305(c) 
of the Multifamily Housing Property Disposition Reform Act of 1994 (42 
U.S.C. 3547), provided that references in such section 305(c) to 
``State or unit of general local government'' shall be deemed to 
include Indian tribes.
    (e) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the following 
definitions, and definitions in section 1004 of the Residential Lead-
Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851b), shall 
apply:
            (1) Nonprofit; nonprofit organization.--The terms 
        ``nonprofit'' and ``nonprofit organization'' mean a 
        corporation, community chest, fund, or foundation not organized 
        for profit, but organized and operated exclusively for 
        religious, charitable, scientific, testing for public safety, 
        literary, or educational purposes; or an organization not 
        organized for profit but operated exclusively for the promotion 
        of social welfare.
            (2) Public housing; public housing agency; low-income 
        family.--The terms ``public housing'', ``public housing 
        agency'', and ``low-income family'''' have the same meaning 
        given such terms in section 3(b) of the United States Housing 
        Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)).
            (3) Tribally designated housing entity; indian tribe.--The 
        terms ``tribally designated housing entity'' and ``Indian 
        tribe'' have the same meaning given such terms in section 4 of 
        the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination 
        Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103).
            (4) Unit of general local government.--The term ``unit of 
        general local government'' has the same meaning given such term 
        in section 102 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
        1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302).
    (f) Implementation.--The Secretary shall have the authority to 
issue such regulations or other notices, guidance, forms, instructions, 
and publications as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
programs, projects, or activities authorized under this section, 
including to ensure that such programs, projects, or activities are 
completed in a timely and effective manner.

SEC. 40103. UNLOCKING POSSIBILITIES PROGRAM.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated--
            (1) $4,260,000,000 for awarding planning grants under this 
        section to develop and evaluate housing policy plans and 
        substantially improve housing strategies;
            (2) $20,000,000 for research and evaluation related to 
        housing policy planning and other associated costs;
            (3) $70,000,000 to provide technical assistance to grantees 
        or applicants for grants made available by this section; and
            (4) $150,000,000 for the costs to the Secretary of 
        administering and overseeing the implementation of this 
        section, including information technology, financial reporting, 
        research and evaluations, fair housing compliance, and other 
        cross-program costs in support of programs administered by the 
        Secretary in this title; the Secretary may transfer and merge 
        amounts appropriated under this paragraph to section 40301.
Amounts appropriated by this section shall remain available until 
September 30, 2031.
    (b) Program Establishment.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development shall establish a competitive grant program for--
            (1) planning grants to develop and evaluate housing policy 
        plans and substantially improve housing strategies;
            (2) streamlining regulatory requirements and shorten 
        processes, reform zoning codes, or other initiatives that 
        reduce barriers to housing supply elasticity and affordability;
            (3) developing and evaluating local or regional plans for 
        urban development to substantially improve urban development 
        strategies related to sustainability, fair housing, and 
        location efficiency;
            (4) implementation and livable community investment grants; 
        and
            (5) research and evaluation.
    (c) Grants.--
            (1) Planning grants.--The Secretary shall, under selection 
        criteria determined by the Secretary, award grants under this 
        paragraph on a competitive basis to eligible entities to 
        finance planning activities, including engagement with 
        community stakeholders and housing practitioners, to--
                    (A) develop housing policy plans;
                    (B) substantially improve State or local housing 
                strategies;
                    (C) develop new regulatory requirements and 
                processes, reform zoning codes, or undertake other 
                initiatives to reduce barriers to housing supply 
                elasticity and affordability;
                    (D) develop local or regional plans for urban 
                development; and
                    (E) substantially improve urban development 
                strategies, including strategies to increase 
                availability and access to affordable housing, to 
                further access to public transportation or to advance 
                other sustainable or location-efficient urban 
                development goals.
            (2) Implementation and livable community investment 
        grants.--The Secretary shall award implementation grants under 
        this paragraph on a competitive basis to eligible entities for 
        the purpose of implementing--
                    (A) completed housing strategies and housing policy 
                plans and any planning to affirmatively further fair 
                housing within the meaning of subsections (d) and (e) 
                of section 808 of the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 608) 
                and applicable regulations and for community 
                investments that support the goals identified in such 
                housing strategies or housing policy plans;
                    (B) new regulatory requirements and processes, 
                reformed zoning codes, or other initiatives to reduce 
                barriers to housing supply elasticity and affordability 
                that are consistent with a plan under subparagraph (A);
                    (C) completed local or regional plans for urban 
                development and any planning to increase availability 
                and access to affordable housing, access to public 
                transportation and other sustainable or location-
                efficient urban development goals.
    (d) Coordination With FTA Administrator.--To the extent 
practicable, the Secretary shall coordinate with the Federal Transit 
Administrator in carrying out this section.
    (e) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the following 
definitions apply:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a State, insular area, metropolitan city, or 
                urban county, as such terms are defined in section 102 
                of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 
                (42 U.S.C. 5302); or
                    (B) for purposes of grants under subsection (b)(1), 
                a regional planning agency or consortia.
            (2) Housing policy plan; housing strategy.--
                    (A) Housing policy plan.--The term ``housing policy 
                plan'' means a plan of an eligible entity to, with 
                respect to the area within the jurisdiction of the 
                eligible entity--
                            (i) match the creation of housing supply to 
                        existing demand and projected demand growth in 
                        the area, with attention to preventing 
                        displacement of residents, reducing the 
                        concentration of poverty, and meaningfully 
                        reducing and not perpetuating housing 
                        segregation on the basis of race, color, 
                        religion, natural origin, sex, disability, or 
                        familial status;
                            (ii) increase the affordability of housing 
                        in the area, increase the accessibility of 
                        housing in the area for people with 
                        disabilities, including location-efficient 
                        housing, and preserve or improve the quality of 
                        housing in the area;
                            (iii) reduce barriers to housing 
                        development in the area, with consideration for 
                        location efficiency, affordability, and 
                        accessibility; and
                            (iv) coordinate with the metropolitan 
                        transportation plan of the area under the 
                        jurisdiction of the eligible entity, or other 
                        regional plan.
                    (B) Housing strategy.--The term ``housing 
                strategy'' means the housing strategy required under 
                section 105 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
                Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12705).
    (f) Costs to Grantees.--Up to 15 percent of a recipient's grant may 
be used for administrative costs.
    (g) Rules of Construction.--
            (1) In general.-- Except as otherwise provided by this 
        section, amounts appropriated or otherwise made available under 
        this section shall be subject to the community development 
        block grant program requirements under title I of the Housing 
        and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.).
            (2) Exceptions.--
                    (A) Housing construction.--Expenditures on new 
                construction of housing shall be an eligible expense 
                under this section.
                    (B) Buildings for general conduct of government .--
                Expenditures on building for the general conduct of 
                government, other than the Federal Government, shall be 
                eligible under this section when necessary and 
                appropriate as a part of a natural hazard mitigation 
                project.
    (h) Waivers.--The Secretary may waive or specify alternative 
requirements for any provision of title I of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) or regulation for the 
administration of the amounts made available under this section other 
than requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor 
standards, and the environment, upon a finding that the waiver or 
alternative requirement is necessary to expedite or facilitate the use 
of amounts made available under this section.
    (i) Implementation.--The Secretary shall have the authority to 
issue such regulations or other notices, guidance, forms, instructions, 
and publications as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
programs, projects, or activities authorized under this section, 
including to ensure that such programs, projects, or activities are 
completed in a timely and effective manner.

SEC. 40104. STRENGTHENING RESILIENCE UNDER NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Program Debt.--
            (1) Cancellation.--Subject only to paragraphs (2) and (3) 
        and notwithstanding any other provision of law, all 
        indebtedness of the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
        Management Agency under any notes or other obligations issued 
        pursuant to section 1309(a) of the National Flood Insurance Act 
        of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 7 4016(a)) and section 15(e) of the Federal 
        Insurance Act of 1956 (42 U.S.C. 2414(e)), and outstanding as 
        of the date of the enactment of this Act, is hereby canceled, 
        the Administrator and the National Flood Insurance Fund are 
        relieved of all liability to the Secretary of the Treasury 
        under any such notes or other obligations, including for any 
        capitalized interest due under such notes or other obligations 
        and any other fees and charges payable in connection with such 
        notes and obligations, and the total amount of notes and 
        obligations issued by the Administrator pursuant to such 
        section shall be considered to be reduced by such amount for 
        purposes of the limitation on such total amount under such 
        section.
            (2) Use of savings.--Effective on and after October 1, 
        2031, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
        Agency shall use any savings accruing from the cancellation of 
        debt under paragraph (1), including any amounts of interest 
        payments avoided from such cancellation, only for deposit in 
        and use under the National Flood Insurance Reserve Fund under 
        section 1310A of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 
        U.S.C. 4017A).
            (3) Treatment of canceled debt.--The amount of the 
        indebtedness canceled under paragraph (1) may be treated as a 
        public debt of the United States.
    (b) Flood Hazard Mapping and Risk Analysis.----In addition to 
amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Administrator 
of the Federal Emergency Management Agency for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $3,000,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses for flood 
hazard mapping and risk analysis, which shall be in addition to, and 
shall supplement--
            (1) amounts otherwise available for those purposes, 
        including amounts appropriated to the National Flood Insurance 
        Fund established under section 1310 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
        4017); and
            (2) any funds provided to the Administrator by States and 
        local governments under section 1360(f)(2) of such Act (42 
        U.S.C. 4101(f)(2)).
    (c) Means-tested Assistance for National Flood Insurance Program 
Policyholders.--
            (1) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Administrator of the 
        Federal Emergency Management Agency for fiscal year 2022, out 
        of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
        $1,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, 
        to carry out a means-tested program under which the 
        Administrator provides assistance to eligible policyholders in 
        the form of graduated discounts for insurance costs with 
        respect to covered properties.
            (2) Terms and conditions.--
                    (A) Discounts.--The Administrator shall use funds 
                provided under this subsection to establish graduated 
                discounts available to eligible policyholders under 
                this subsection, with respect to covered properties, 
                which may be based on the following factors:
                            (i) The percentage by which the household 
                        income of the eligible policyholder is equal 
                        to, or less than, 120 percent of the area 
                        median income for the area in which the 
                        property to which the policy applies is 
                        located.
                            (ii) The number of eligible policyholders 
                        participating in the program authorized under 
                        this subsection.
                            (iii) The availability of funding.
                            (iv) Any other factor that the 
                        Administrator finds reasonable and necessary to 
                        carry out the purposes of this subsection
                    (B) Distribution of premium.--With respect to the 
                amount of the discounts provided under this subsection 
                in a fiscal year, and any administrative expenses 
                incurred in carrying out this subsection for that 
                fiscal year, the Administrator shall, from amounts made 
                available to carry out this subsection for that fiscal 
                year, deposit in the National Flood Insurance Fund 
                established under section 1310 of the National Flood 
                Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4017) an amount equal 
                to those discounts and administrative expenses, except 
                to the extent that section 1310A of the National Flood 
                Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4017a) applies to any 
                portion of those discounts or administrative expenses, 
                in which case the Administrator shall deposit an amount 
                equal to those amounts to which such section 1310A 
                applies in the National Flood Insurance Reserve Fund 
                established under such section 1310A.
                    (C) Requirement on timing.--Not later than 21 
                months after the date of the enactment of this section, 
                the Administrator shall issue interim guidance to 
                implement this subsection which shall expire on the 
                later of--
                            (i) the date that is 60 months after the 
                        date of the enactment of this section; or
                            (ii) the date on which a final rule issued 
                        to implement this subsection takes effect.
            (3) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' 
                means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
                Management Agency.
                    (B) Covered property.--The term ``covered 
                property'' means--
                            (i) a primary residential dwelling designed 
                        for the occupancy of from 1 to 4 families; or
                            (ii) personal property relating to a 
                        dwelling described in clause (i).
                    (C) Eligible policyholder.--The term ``eligible 
                policyholder'' means a policyholder with a household 
                income that is not more than 120 percent of the area 
                median income for the area in which the property to 
                which the policy applies is located.
                    (D) Insurance costs.--The term ``insurance costs'' 
                means, with respect to a covered property for a year--
                            (i) risk premiums and fees estimated under 
                        section 1307 of the National Flood Insurance 
                        Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4014) and charged under 
                        section 1308 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 4015);
                            (ii) surcharges assessed under sections 
                        1304 and 1308A of such Act (42 U.S.C. 4011, 
                        4015a); and
                            (iii) any amount established under section 
                        1310A(c) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 4017a).

SEC. 40105. COMMUNITY RESTORATION AND REVITALIZATION FUND.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Community Restoration and Revitalization 
Fund established under subsection (b) for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated--
            (1) $5,700,000,000 for awards of planning and 
        implementation grants to eligible recipients to carry out 
        community-led projects to stabilize neighborhoods and increase 
        access to economic opportunity for residents by creating 
        equitable civic infrastructure and creating or preserving 
        affordable, accessible housing;
            (2) $500,000,000 for awards of grants to eligible 
        recipients to create, expand, and maintain community land 
        trusts and shared equity homeownership, including through the 
        acquisition, rehabilitation, and new construction of 
        affordable, accessible housing;
            (3) $1,000,000,000 for the Secretary to provide technical 
        assistance, capacity building, program support to applicants, 
        potential applicants, and recipients of amounts appropriated 
        for grants under this section; and
            (4) $300,000,000 for the costs to the Secretary of 
        administering and overseeing the implementation of this 
        section, including information technology, financial reporting, 
        research and evaluations, fair housing compliance, and other 
        cross-program costs in support of programs administered by the 
        Secretary in this title; the Secretary may transfer and merge 
        amounts appropriated under this paragraph to section 40301.
Amounts appropriated by this section shall remain available until 
September 30, 2031.
    (b) Establishment of Fund.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development (in this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall 
establish a Community Restoration and Revitalization Fund (in this 
section referred to as the ``Fund'') to award planning and 
implementation grants on a competitive basis to eligible recipients as 
defined in this section for activities authorized under title I of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) 
for community-led projects that create civic infrastructure to support 
a community's social, economic, and civic fabric, create fair, 
affordable and accessible housing opportunities, prevent residential 
displacement, acquire and remediate blighted properties, and promote 
quality job creation and retention.
    (c) Grants.--
            (1) Geographical areas.--The Secretary shall award grants 
        from the Fund to eligible recipients within geographical areas 
        at the neighborhood, county, census tract, or census tract 
        level, including census tracts adjacent to the project area 
        that are areas in need of investment, and that have at least 
        two of the following indicators:
                    (A) Dwelling unit sales prices that are lower than 
                the cost to acquire and rehabilitate, or build, a new 
                dwelling unit.
                    (B) High proportions of residential and commercial 
                properties that are vacant due to foreclosure, 
                eviction, abandonment, or other causes.
                    (C) Low rates of homeownership.
                    (D) Disparities in racial and ethnic homeownership 
                rates.
                    (E) High and persistent rates of poverty.
                    (F) High rates of unemployment and underemployment.
                    (G) Population at risk of displacement due to 
                rising housing costs.
                    (H) Historic population loss.
                    (I) Lack of private sector lending on fair and 
                competitive terms for individuals to purchase homes or 
                start small businesses.
                    (J) Other indicators of economic distress.
    (d) Eligible Recipients and Applicants.--
            (1) Eligible recipient.--An eligible recipient of a grant 
        under subsection (b)(1) shall be a local partnership of a lead 
        applicant and one or more joint applicants with the ability to 
        administer the grant. An eligible recipient of a grant under 
        subsection (b)(2) shall be a lead applicant with the ability to 
        administer the grant, including a regional or national 
        nonprofit, that may include a joint applicant.
            (2) Lead applicant.--An eligible lead applicant for a grant 
        awarded under this section shall be--
                    (A)(i) a nonprofit organization that--
                            (I) demonstrates a commitment to anti-
                        displacement efforts and has expertise in 
                        community planning, engagement, organizing, 
                        housing and community development, or 
                        neighborhood revitalization; and
                            (II) is located within or serves the 
                        geographical area of the project or that 
                        derives its mission and operational priorities 
                        from the needs of the geographical area of the 
                        project; or
                    (ii) if the geographical area of the project is 
                located in any area where no such local nonprofit 
                organization exists, a national nonprofit organization 
                with such expertise;
                    (B) a community development corporation, that is 
                located within or serves the geographical area of the 
                project and can demonstrate a track record of making 
                investments in the geographical area of the project, 
                and demonstrates a commitment to anti-displacement 
                efforts;
                    (C) a community housing development organization, 
                defined in section 104 of the Cranston-Gonzalez 
                National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12704) or a 
                community-based development organization, that is 
                located within or serves the geographical area of the 
                project and experienced in neighborhood revitalization, 
                community-based economic development, housing 
                development activities, and demonstrates a commitment 
                to anti-displacement efforts; or
                    (D) a community development financial institution, 
                as defined by section 103 of the Riegle Community 
                Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 (12 
                U.S.C. 4702), that is located within or serves the 
                geographical area of the project, demonstrates a 
                commitment to anti-displacement efforts, and has a 
                track record of making investments in the geographic 
                project area.
            (3) Joint applicants.--A joint applicant shall be a local, 
        regional or national entity that is--
                    (A) an organization that qualifies as a lead 
                applicant;
                    (B) a unit of general local government, as defined 
                in section 102 of the Housing and Community Development 
                Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302);
                    (C) an Indian tribe, as defined in section 102 of 
                the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 
                U.S.C. 5302);
                    (D) a nonprofit organization;
                    (E) a community development corporation;
                    (F) an anchor institution;
                    (G) a State housing finance agency (as such term is 
                defined in section 106(h) of the Housing and Urban 
                Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701x(h))) or a 
                related State agency;
                    (H) a land bank;
                    (I) a fair housing enforcement organization (as 
                such term is defined in section 561 of the Housing and 
                Community Development Act of 1987 (42 U.S.C. 3616a));
                    (J) a public housing agency (as such term is 
                defined in section 3(b) of the United States Housing 
                Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)));
                    (K) a community development financial institution, 
                as defined by section 103 of the Riegle Community 
                Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 (12 
                U.S.C. 4702); or
                    (L) a philanthropic organization.
    (e) Eligible Uses.--
            (1) In general.--Grants awarded under this section may be 
        used to support civic infrastructure and housing-related 
        activities. Projects must include at least one civic 
        infrastructure and at least one housing-related activity.
            (2) Planning grants.--Planning grants awarded under this 
        section may be used for civic infrastructure and housing-
        related activities, including--
                    (A) fair housing planning, to affirmatively further 
                fair housing;
                    (B) planning to prevent displacement especially of 
                extremely-low, very-low, low- and moderate-income 
                homeowners, renters, and people experiencing 
                homelessness;
                    (C) community planning and outreach;
                    (D) neighborhood engagement with resident leaders 
                and community groups;
                    (E) pre-development activities;
                    (F) community engagement processes;
                    (G) market analysis;
                    (H) financial planning and feasibility; and
                    (I) site surveys.
            (3) Implementation grants.--Implementation grants awarded 
        under this section may be used for activities eligible under 
        section 105 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
        1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305) and other activities to support civic 
        infrastructure and housing-related activities, including--
                    (A) new construction of housing;
                    (B) demolition of abandoned or distressed 
                structures, but only if such activity is part of a 
                strategy that incorporates rehabilitation or new 
                construction, anti-displacement efforts such as 
                tenants' right to return and right of first refusal to 
                purchase, and efforts to increase affordable, 
                accessible housing and homeownership, except that not 
                more than 10 percent of any grant made under this 
                section may be used for activities under this 
                subparagraph unless the Secretary determines that such 
                use is to the benefit of existing residents;
                    (C) facilitating the creation, maintenance, or 
                availability of rental units, including units in mixed-
                use properties, affordable and accessible to a 
                household whose income does not exceed 80 percent of 
                the median income for the area, as determined by the 
                Secretary, for a period of not less than 30 years;
                    (D) facilitating the creation, maintenance, or 
                availability of homeownership units affordable and 
                accessible to households whose incomes do not exceed 
                120 percent of the median income for the area, as 
                determined by the Secretary;
                    (E) establishing or operating land banks; and
                    (F) providing assistance to existing residents 
                experiencing economic distress or at risk of 
                displacement, including purchasing nonperforming 
                mortgages and clearing and obtaining formal title.
            (4) Community land trust grants.--An eligible recipient of 
        a community land trust grant awarded under this section may use 
        such grant for activities to support civic infrastructure, 
        including the production, acquisition, and rehabilitation of 
        housing for use in a community land trust or shared equity 
        homeownership program, and expanding the capacity of the 
        recipient to carry out the grant.
            (5) Costs of grantees.--Up to 20 percent of a recipient's 
        grant may be used for administrative costs.
    (f) Rules of Construction.--Except as otherwise provided by this 
section, amounts appropriated or otherwise made available under this 
section shall be subject to the community development block grant 
program requirements under title I of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.).
    (g) Waivers.--The Secretary may waive or specify alternative 
requirements for any provision of title I of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) or regulation for the 
administration of the amounts made available under this section other 
than requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor 
standards, and the environment, upon a finding that the waiver or 
alternative requirement is necessary to expedite or facilitate the use 
of amounts made available under this section.
    (h) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the following 
definitions shall apply:
            (1) Anchor institution.--The term ``anchor institution'' 
        means a school, a library, a healthcare provider, a community 
        college or other institution of higher education, museum or 
        cultural institution, or another community support organization 
        or entity.
            (2) Community land trust.--The term ``community land 
        trust''' means a nonprofit organization or State or local 
        governments or instrumentalities that--
                    (A) use a ground lease or deed covenant with an 
                affordability period of at least 30 years or more to--
                            (i) make rental and homeownership units 
                        affordable to households; and
                            (ii) stipulate a preemptive option to 
                        purchase the affordable rentals or 
                        homeownership units so that the affordability 
                        of the units is preserved for successive 
                        income-eligible households; and
                    (B) monitor properties to ensure affordability is 
                preserved.
            (3) Land bank.--The term ``land bank'' means a government 
        entity, agency, or program, or a special purpose nonprofit 
        entity formed by one or more units of government in accordance 
        with State or local land bank enabling law, that has been 
        designated by one or more State or local governments to 
        acquire, steward, and dispose of vacant, abandoned, or other 
        problem properties in accordance with locally-determined 
        priorities and goals.
            (4) Shared equity homeownership program.--The term ``shared 
        equity homeownership program'' means a program to facilitate 
        affordable homeownership preservation through a resale 
        restriction program administered by a community land trust, 
        other nonprofit organization, or State or local government or 
        instrumentalities and that utilizes a ground lease, deed 
        restriction, subordinate loan, or similar legal mechanism that 
        includes provisions ensuring that the program shall--
                    (A) maintain the home as affordable for subsequent 
                very low-, low-, or moderate-income families for an 
                affordability term of at least 30 years after 
                recordation;
                    (B) apply a resale formula that limits the 
                homeowner's proceeds upon resale; and
                    (C) provide the program administrator or such 
                administrator's assignee a preemptive option to 
                purchase the homeownership unit from the homeowner at 
                resale.

SEC. 40106. FAIR HOUSING ACTIVITIES AND INVESTIGATIONS.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
(in this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated--
            (1) $770,000,000 for the Fair Housing Initiatives Program 
        under section 561 of the Housing and Community Development Act 
        of 1987 (42 U.S.C. 3616a) to ensure existing and new fair 
        housing organizations have expanded and strengthened capacity 
        to address fair housing inquiries and complaints, conduct 
        local, regional, and national testing and investigations, 
        conduct education and outreach activities, and address costs of 
        delivering or adapting services to meet increased housing 
        market activity and evolving business practices in the housing, 
        housing-related, and lending markets. Amounts made available 
        under this section shall support greater organizational 
        continuity and capacity, including through up to 10-year 
        grants; and
            (2) $230,000,000 for the costs to the Secretary of 
        administering and overseeing the implementation of this section 
        and the Fair Housing Initiatives and Fair Housing Assistance 
        Programs generally, including information technology, financial 
        reporting, research and evaluations, other cross-program costs 
        in support of programs administered by the Secretary in this 
        title, and other costs. The Secretary may transfer and merge 
        amounts set aside under this paragraph to section 40301.
Amounts appropriated by this section shall remain available until 
September 30, 2031.
    (b) Implementation.--The Secretary shall have authority to issue 
such regulations or other notices, guidance, forms, instructions, and 
publications as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
programs, projects, or activities authorized under this section, 
including to ensure that such programs, projects, or activities are 
completed in a timely and effective manner.

SEC. 40107. INTERGOVERNMENTAL FAIR HOUSING ACTIVITIES AND 
              INVESTIGATIONS.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
(in this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated--
            (1) $184,000,000 for support for cooperative efforts with 
        State and local agencies administering fair housing laws under 
        section 817 of the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3616) to assist 
        the Secretary to affirmatively further fair housing, and for 
        Fair Housing Assistance Program cooperative agreements with 
        interim certified and certified State and local agencies, under 
        the requirements of subpart C of part 115 of title 24, Code of 
        Federal Regulations, to ensure expanded and strengthened 
        capacity of substantially equivalent agencies to assume a 
        greater share of the responsibility for the administration and 
        enforcement of fair housing laws; the Secretary may transfer 
        and merge amounts appropriated by this paragraph to section 
        40301; and
            (2) $66,000,000 for the costs to the Secretary of 
        administering and overseeing the implementation of this section 
        and the Fair Housing Assistance and Fair Housing Initiatives 
        Programs generally, including information technology, financial 
        reporting, research and evaluations, other cross-program costs 
        in support of programs administered by the Secretary in this 
        title, and other costs; the Secretary may transfer and merge 
        amounts appropriated by this paragraph to section 40301.
Amounts appropriated by this section shall remain available until 
September 30, 2031.
    (b) Implementation.--The Secretary shall have authority to issue 
such regulations or other notices, guidance, forms, instructions, and 
publications as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
programs, projects, or activities authorized under this section, 
including to ensure that such programs, projects, or activities are 
completed in a timely and effective manner.
