---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Subtitle C - Homeownership Investments

## SEC. 40201. FIRST-GENERATION DOWNPAYMENT ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the First Generation Downpayment Fund 
established under subsection (b) for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated--
            (1) $6,825,000,000 for the First-Generation Downpayment 
        Assistance Fund under this section for allocation among States 
        that the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development has not 
        found to be out of compliance with the obligation to 
        affirmatively further fair housing, in accordance with a 
        formula established by the Secretary, which shall take into 
        consideration adult population size excluding homeowners, 
        median area home prices, and racial disparities in 
        homeownership rates, to carry out the eligible uses of the Fund 
        as described in subsection (c);
            (2) $2,275,000,000 for the First-Generation Downpayment 
        Assistance Program under this section for competitive grants to 
        eligible entities that the Secretary has not found to be out of 
        compliance with the obligation to affirmatively further fair 
        housing, to carry out the eligible uses of the Fund as 
        described in subsection (d);
            (3) $500,000,000 for the costs of providing housing 
        counseling required under the First-Generation Downpayment 
        Assistance Program under subsection (c)(1); and
            (4) $400,000,000 for the costs to the Secretary of 
        administering and overseeing the implementation of the First-
        Generation Downpayment Assistance Program, including 
        information technology, financial reporting, programmatic 
        reporting, ensuring fair housing and fair lending compliance, 
        research and evaluations, technical assistance to recipients of 
        amounts under this section, and other cross-program costs in 
        support to programs administered by the Secretary in this Act, 
        and other costs; the Secretary may transfer and merge accounts 
        set aside under this clause to section 40301.
Amounts appropriated by this section shall remain available until 
September 30, 2031.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
shall establish and manage a fund to be known as the First Generation 
Downpayment Fund (in this section referred to as the ``Fund'') for the 
uses set forth in subsection (d).
    (c) Allocation of Funds.--
            (1) Initial allocation.--The Secretary shall allocate and 
        award funding provided by subsection (a) as provided under such 
        subsection not later than 12 months after the date of the 
        enactment of this section.
            (2) Reallocation of funds.--If a State or eligible entity 
        does not demonstrate the capacity to expend grant funds 
        provided under this section, the Secretary shall reallocate the 
        grant funds of such grantee among States and eligible entities 
        that demonstrate to the Secretary the capacity to expend such 
        amounts and that are satisfactorily meeting the goals of this 
        section.
    (d) Terms and Conditions of Grants Allocated or Awarded From 
Fund.--
            (1) Uses of funds.--States and eligible entities receiving 
        grants from the Fund shall--
                    (A) use such grants to provide assistance on behalf 
                of a qualified homebuyer who has completed a program of 
                housing counseling before entering into a sales 
                purchase agreement, as the Secretary shall require, 
                provided through a housing counseling agency approved 
                by the Secretary for--
                            (i) costs in connection with the 
                        acquisition, involving an eligible mortgage 
                        loan, of an eligible home, including 
                        downpayment costs, closing costs, and costs to 
                        reduce the rates of interest on eligible 
                        mortgage loans;
                            (ii) subsidies to make shared equity homes 
                        affordable to eligible homebuyers by 
                        discounting the price for which the home will 
                        be sold and to preserve the home's 
                        affordability for subsequent homebuyers; and
                            (iii) pre-occupancy home modifications that 
                        may be necessary to meet required property 
                        standards or accommodate qualified homebuyers 
                        or members of their household with 
                        disabilities;
                    (B) use not more than 10 percent of their grant 
                allocation or award for administrative costs and 
                training for carrying out the program of the State or 
                eligible entity to provide assistance with such grant 
                amounts, as well as to develop the capacity to track 
                and monitor program outcomes in consultation with 
                community-based and nonprofit organizations that have 
                as their mission to advance fair housing and fair 
                lending; and
                    (C) comply with the obligation to affirmatively 
                further fair housing, as defined by the Secretary to 
                implement section 808(e)(5) of the Fair Housing Act (42 
                U.S.C. 3608(e)(5)), in any program or activity related 
                to the use of such funds.
            (2) Amount and layering of assistance.--Assistance under 
        this section--
                    (A) may be provided to or on behalf of any 
                qualified homebuyer only once;
                    (B) may not exceed the greater of $20,000 or 10 
                percent of the purchase price in the case of a 
                qualified homebuyer, not to include assistance received 
                under subsection (d)(1)(A)(iii) for disability related 
                home modifications, except that the Secretary may 
                increase such maximum limitation amounts in the case of 
                a qualified homebuyer who is economically 
                disadvantaged; and
                    (C) may be provided to or on behalf of a qualified 
                homebuyer who is receiving assistance from other 
                sources, including other State, Federal, local, 
                private, public, and nonprofit sources, for acquisition 
                of an eligible home.
            (3) Prohibition of priority.--In selecting qualified 
        homebuyers for assistance with grant amounts under this 
        section, a State or eligible entity may not provide any 
        priority or preference for homebuyers who are acquiring 
        eligible homes with a mortgage loan made, insured, guaranteed, 
        or otherwise assisted by the State housing finance agency for 
        the State, any other housing agency of the State, or an 
        eligible entity when applicable.
            (4) Repayment of assistance.--
                    (A) Requirement.--The Secretary shall require that, 
                if a homebuyer to or on behalf of whom assistance is 
                provided from grant amounts under this section fails or 
                ceases to occupy the property acquired using such 
                assistance as the primary residence of the homebuyer, 
                except in the case of assistance is provided in 
                connection with the purchase of a principal residence 
                through a shared equity homeownership program, the 
                homebuyer shall repay to the State or eligible entity, 
                as applicable, in a proportional amount of the 
                assistance the homebuyer receives based on the number 
                of years they have occupied the eligible home up to 5 
                years, except that no assistance shall be repaid if the 
                qualified homebuyer occupies the eligible home as a 
                primary residence for 5 years or more.
                    (B) Limitation.--Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), 
                a homebuyer to or on behalf of whom assistance is 
                provided from grant amounts under this section shall 
                not be liable to the State or eligible entity for the 
                repayment of the amount of such shortage if the 
                homebuyer fails or ceases to occupy the property 
                acquired using such assistance as the principal 
                residence of the homebuyer at least in part because of 
                a hardship, such as death or military deployment; a 
                financial hardship, such as a significant reduction in 
                income, or increase in medical expenses; relocation for 
                a reason related to domestic violence, dating violence, 
                sexual assault, or stalking, as defined in the 
                Secretary's regulations implementing the Violence 
                Against Women Act; or relocation for a reason related 
                to the homebuyer or a member of the household's 
                disabilities; or another hardships based on criteria 
                established by the Secretary, or sells the property 
                acquired with such assistance before the expiration of 
                the 60-month period beginning on such date of 
                acquisition and the capital gains from such sale to a 
                bona fide purchaser in an arm's length transaction are 
                less than the amount the homebuyer is required to repay 
                the State or eligible entity under subparagraph (A).
            (5) Community land trusts and shared equity homeownership 
        programs.--If assistance from grant amounts under this section 
        is provided in connection with an eligible home made available 
        through a community land trust or shared equity homeownership 
        program, such assistance shall remain in the community land 
        trust or shared equity property upon transfer of the property 
        to keep the home affordable to the next eligible community land 
        trust or shared equity homebuyer.
            (6) Reliance on borrower attestations.--No additional 
        documentation beyond the borrower's attestation shall be 
        required to demonstrate eligibility under subparagraphs (B) and 
        (C) of subsection (e)(6) and no State, eligible entity, or 
        creditor shall be subject to liability, including monetary 
        penalties or requirements to indemnify a Federal agency or 
        repurchase a loan that has been sold or securitized, based on 
        the provision of assistance under this section to or on behalf 
        of a borrower who does not meet the eligibility requirements 
        under such subparagraphs if the creditor does so in good faith 
        reliance on borrower attestations of eligibility required under 
        such subparagraphs.
            (7) Reporting.--The Secretary may require the reporting of 
        such information on the use of grants provided from the Fund as 
        the Secretary may require to carry out this subsection.
    (e) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the following 
definitions shall apply:
            (1) Community land trust.--The term ``community land 
        trust''" means a nonprofit organization or State or local 
        government, agencies or instrumentalities thereof, that--
                    (A) use a ground lease or deed covenant with an 
                affordability period of at least 30 years to--
                            (i) make homeownership units affordable to 
                        households; and
                            (ii) stipulate a preemptive option to 
                        purchase the affordable homeownership units so 
                        that the affordability of the units is 
                        preserved for successive income-eligible 
                        households; and
                    (B) monitor properties to ensure affordability is 
                preserved.
            (2) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a minority depository institution, as such term 
                is defined in section 308 of the Financial Institutions 
                Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 
                U.S.C. 1463 note);
                    (B) a community development financial institution, 
                as such term is defined in section 103 of the Riegle 
                Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 
                1994 (12 U.S.C. 4702), that is certified by the 
                Secretary of the Treasury and targets services to low-
                income and socially disadvantaged populations and 
                provides services in neighborhoods having high 
                concentrations of minority, low-income and socially 
                disadvantaged populations; and
                    (C) any other nonprofit, mission-driven entity that 
                the Secretary finds has a track record of providing 
                assistance to homeowners, targets services to low-
                income and socially disadvantaged populations, and 
                provides services in neighborhoods having high 
                concentrations of minority, low-income, or socially 
                disadvantaged populations.
            (3) Eligible home.--The term ``eligible home'' means a 
        residential dwelling, including a unit in a condominium or 
        cooperative project or a manufactured housing unit, that--
                    (A) consists of 1 to 4 dwelling units; and
                    (B) will be occupied by the qualified homebuyer, in 
                accordance with such assurances and commitments as the 
                Secretary shall require, as the primary residence of 
                the homebuyer.
            (4) Eligible mortgage loan.--The term ``eligible mortgage 
        loan'' means a single-family residential mortgage loan that--
                    (A) meets the underwriting requirements and dollar 
                amount limitations for acquisition by the Federal 
                National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan 
                Mortgage Corporation;
                    (B) is made, insured, or guaranteed under any 
                program administered by the Secretary;
                    (C) is made, insured, or guaranteed under title V 
                of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1471 et seq.);
                    (D) is a qualified mortgage, as such term is 
                defined in section 129C(b)(2) of the Truth in Lending 
                Act (15 U.S.C. 1639c(b)(2)); or
                    (E) is made, insured, or guaranteed for the benefit 
                of a veteran.
            (5) First generation homebuyer.--The term ``first-
        generation homebuyer'' means a homebuyer that is, as attested 
        by the homebuyer--
                    (A) an individual--
                            (i) whose living parents or legal guardians 
                        do not, to the best of the individual's 
                        knowledge, have any present fee simple 
                        ownership interest in a principal residence in 
                        any State, excluding ownership of heir 
                        property;
                            (ii) who, if no parents or legal guardians 
                        are living upon acquisition of the eligible 
                        home to be acquired using such assistance, to 
                        the best of the individual's knowledge, their 
                        parents or legal guardians did not have any 
                        ownership interest in a principal residence in 
                        any State at the time of their death, excluding 
                        ownership of heir property; and
                            (iii) whose spouse or domestic partner has 
                        not, during the 3-year period ending upon 
                        acquisition of the eligible home to be acquired 
                        using such assistance, had any present 
                        ownership interest in a principal residence in 
                        any State, excluding ownership of heir 
                        property, whether the individual is a co-
                        borrower on the loan or not; or
                    (B) an individual who has at any time been placed 
                in foster care or institutional care whose spouse or 
                domestic partner has not, during the 3-year period 
                ending upon acquisition of the eligible home to be 
                acquired using such assistance, had any ownership 
                interest in a principal residence in any State, 
                excluding ownership of heir property, whether such 
                individuals are co-borrowers on the loan or not.
            (6) Qualified homebuyer.--The term ``qualified homebuyer'' 
        means a homebuyer--
                    (A) having an annual household income that is less 
                than or equal to--
                            (i) 120 percent of median income, as 
                        determined by the Secretary, for--
                                    (I) the area in which the home to 
                                be acquired using such assistance is 
                                located; or
                                    (II) the area in which the place of 
                                residence of the homebuyer is located; 
                                or
                            (ii) 140 percent of the median income, as 
                        determined by the Secretary, for the area 
                        within which the eligible home to be acquired 
                        using such assistance is located if the 
                        homebuyer is acquiring an eligible home located 
                        in a high-cost area;
                    (B) who is a first-time homebuyer, as such term is 
                defined at 42 U.S.C. 12704, except that ownership of 
                heir property shall not be treated as owning a home for 
                purposes of determining whether a borrower qualifies as 
                a first-time homebuyer; and
                    (C) who is a first-generation homebuyer.
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Housing and Urban Development.
            (8) Shared equity homeownership program.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``shared equity 
                homeownership program'' means affordable homeownership 
                preservation through a resale restriction program 
                administered by a community land trust, other nonprofit 
                organization, or State or local government or 
                instrumentalities.
                    (B) Affordability requirements.--Any such program 
                under subparagraph (A) shall--
                            (i) provide affordable homeownership 
                        opportunities to households; and
                            (ii) utilize a ground lease, deed 
                        restriction, subordinate loan, or similar legal 
                        mechanism that includes provisions ensuring 
                        that the program shall--
                                    (I) maintain the homeownership unit 
                                as affordable for subsequent very low-, 
                                low-, or moderate-income families for 
                                an affordability term of at least 30 
                                years after recordation;
                                    (II) apply a resale formula that 
                                limits the homeowner's proceeds upon 
                                resale; and
                                    (III) provide the program 
                                administrator or such administrator's 
                                assignee a preemptive option to 
                                purchase the homeownership unit from 
                                the homeowner at resale.
            (9) State.--The term ``State'' means any State of the 
        United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
        Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American 
        Samoa.
            (10) Heir property.--The term ``heir property'' means 
        residential property for which title passed by operation of law 
        through intestacy and is held by two or more heirs as tenants 
        in common.
    (f) Implementation.--The Secretary shall have authority to issue 
such regulations or other notices, guidance, forms, instructions, and 
publications as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
programs, projects, or activities authorized under this section, 
including to ensure that such programs, projects, or activities are 
completed in a timely and effective manner.

SEC. 40202. WEALTH-BUILDING HOME LOAN PROGRAM.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any amounts in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated--
            (1) $480,000,000 to the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development for carrying out the program established under 
        subsection (b) and programs of the Federal Housing 
        Administration and the Government National Mortgage Association 
        generally, including information technology, financial 
        reporting, other cross-program costs in support of programs 
        administered by the Secretary in this Act, other costs, and for 
        the cost of guaranteed loans and other obligations; and
            (2) $20,000,000 to the Secretary of Agriculture for 
        carrying out the program established under subsection (b) and 
        programs of the Rural Housing Service generally, including 
        information technology and financial reporting in support of 
        the Program administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in 
        this Act, other costs, and for the cost of guaranteed loans and 
        other obligations.
Amounts appropriated by this section shall remain available until 
September 30, 2031.
    (b) Establishment of LIFT HOME FUNDS.--
            (1) In general.--There is established in each Loan 
        Guarantee Agency a fund to be known as the LIFT HOME Fund, into 
        which amounts appropriated under this section shall be 
        deposited and which shall be used by each Department for 
        carrying out the purposes of this section.
            (2) Management of fund.--The LIFT HOME Fund of each Loan 
        Guarantee Agency shall be administered and managed by the 
        respective Secretary, who shall establish reasonable and 
        prudent criteria for the management and operation of any 
        amounts in the Fund.
    (c) Use of Funds.--
            (1) Transfer of amounts to treasury.--Such portions of the 
        appropriation to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
        shall be transferred by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development to the Department of the Treasury in an amount 
        equal to, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development--
                    (A) the amount the Secretary of the Treasury 
                estimates to be necessary for the purchase of 
                securities under the Program during the period for 
                which the funds are intended to be available;
                    (B) the difference between--
                            (i) the Secretary of the Treasury's 
                        receipts from the sale or other disposition of 
                        securities acquired under the Program; and
                            (ii) the Secretary of the Treasury's costs 
                        in purchasing such securities; and
                    (C) the Department of the Treasury's administrative 
                expenses related to the Program.
            (2) Credit subsidy.--Such portion of the appropriation to 
        each Secretary as may be necessary may be used for the cost to 
        the respective Loan Guarantee Agency of guaranteed loans under 
        this section. Such costs, including the costs of modifying such 
        loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 661a).
    (d) Establishment of the LIFT HOME Program.--Each Secretary shall 
establish, and carry out, with respect to any mortgage with a case 
number issued on or before December 31, 2025, that is subsequently 
insured or guaranteed by such Secretary, a program to make covered 
mortgage loans available to eligible homebuyers to purchase a single-
family residence for use as their principal residence (referred to in 
this section as the ``Program''), under which--
            (1) the Secretary of the Treasury--
                    (A) shall act as a purchaser, on behalf of the 
                Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, of 
                securities that are secured by covered mortgage loans;
                    (B) may designate financial institutions, including 
                banks, savings associations, trust companies, security 
                brokers or dealers, asset managers, investment 
                advisers, and other institutions and such institutions 
                shall--
                            (i) perform all reasonable duties related 
                        to this section as a financial agent of the 
                        United States as may be required; and
                            (ii) be paid for such duties using 
                        appropriations available to the Secretary of 
                        the Treasury to reimburse financial 
                        institutions in their capacity as financial 
                        agents of the United States;
                    (C) may use the services of any agency or 
                instrumentality of the United States or component 
                thereof on a reimbursable basis, and any such agency or 
                instrumentality or component thereof is authorized to 
                provide services as requested by the Secretary using 
                all authorities vested in or delegated to that agency, 
                instrumentality, or component;
                    (D) may manage, and exercise any rights received in 
                connection with, any financial instruments or assets 
                purchased or acquired pursuant to the authorities 
                granted under this section;
                    (E) may establish and use vehicles to purchase, 
                hold, and sell financial instruments and other assets; 
                and
                    (F) may issue such regulations and other guidance 
                as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
                authorities or purposes of this section;
            (2) each Secretary of a Loan Guarantee Agency shall--
                    (A) establish pricing terms for covered mortgage 
                loans such that the covered mortgage loans carry a 
                monthly mortgage payment of principal and interest that 
                is not more than 110 percent and not less than 100 
                percent of the monthly payment of principal, interest, 
                and periodic mortgage insurance premium or loan 
                guarantee fee associated with a newly originated 30-
                year mortgage loan with the same loan balance insured 
                or guaranteed by the Loan Guarantee Agency as 
                determined by each Secretary, or such pricing terms as 
                are determined by each Secretary to be necessary to 
                develop liquidity for securities backed by covered 
                mortgage loans and expand Program participation by 
                eligible homebuyers; and
                    (B) establish an outreach and counseling program to 
                increase stakeholder awareness of the Program; and
            (3) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall--
                    (A) in consultation with the Secretary of Treasury, 
                establish the pricing terms for the purchase of 
                securities guaranteed by the Association secured by 
                covered mortgage loans such that the covered mortgage 
                loans carry a monthly mortgage payment of principal and 
                interest that is not more than 110 percent and not less 
                than 100 percent of the monthly payment of principal, 
                interest, and periodic mortgage insurance premium or 
                loan guarantee fee associated with a newly originated 
                30-year mortgage loan with the same loan balance 
                insured or guaranteed by the Loan Guarantee Agency, or 
                such pricing terms as are determined by the Secretaries 
                to be necessary to develop liquidity for securities 
                backed by covered mortgage loans and expand Program 
                participation by eligible homebuyers;
                    (B) have the authority to designate mortgage 
                bankers, financial institutions, including banks, 
                savings associations, trust companies, security brokers 
                or dealers, asset managers, investment advisers, and 
                other institutions and such institutions shall--
                            (i) perform all reasonable duties related 
                        to this section as an agent of the United 
                        States as may be required; and
                            (ii) be paid for such duties using 
                        appropriations available under this section to 
                        the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
                        to reimburse these entities in their capacity 
                        as agents of the United States;
                    (C) have the authority to use the services of any 
                agency or instrumentality of the United States or 
                component thereof on a reimbursable basis, and any such 
                agency or instrumentality or component thereof is 
                authorized to provide services as requested by the 
                Secretary of Housing and Urban Development using all 
                authorities vested in or delegated to that agency, 
                instrumentality, or component;
                    (D) operate the Program in coordination with the 
                Association, the Federal Housing Administration, the 
                Rural Housing Service, and the Secretary of the 
                Treasury so as to demonstrate feasibility and 
                workability to market participants, including--
                            (i) originators and servicers of mortgages;
                            (ii) issuers of mortgage-backed securities; 
                        and
                            (iii) investors; and
                    (E) gain price discovery experience by instructing 
                the Secretary of the Treasury, following consultation 
                with the Secretary of Treasury to sell acquired 
                securities described in subparagraph (A) as soon as 
                practicable, thereby hastening the development of 
                liquidity for securities backed by covered mortgage 
                loans.
            (3) Limitation on aggregate loan guarantee authority.--The 
        aggregate original principal obligation of all covered mortgage 
        loans under this section for each Loan Guarantee Agency may not 
        exceed $5,000,000,000.
            (4) GNMA guarantee authority.--To carry out the purposes of 
        this section, the Association may enter into new commitments to 
        issue guarantees of securities based on or backed by mortgages 
        insured under this section, not exceeding $10,000,000,000.
            (5) GNMA guaranty fee.--To carry out the purposes of this 
        section, the Association may collect guaranty fees consistent 
        with section 306(g)(1) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 
        1721(g)(1)) that are paid at securitization.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Association.--The term ``Association'' means the 
        Government National Mortgage Association.
            (2) Covered mortgage loan.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``covered mortgage loan'' 
                means, for purposes of the Program established by the 
                Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, a mortgage 
                loan that--
                            (i) is insured or guaranteed by the Federal 
                        Housing Administration pursuant to section 
                        203(b) of the National Housing Act, subject to 
                        the eligibility criteria set forth in this 
                        subsection, and has a case number issued on or 
                        before December 31, 2025;
                            (ii) is made for an original term of 20 
                        years or for an original term determined by the 
                        Secretary to be necessary to develop liquidity 
                        for securities backed by covered mortgage loans 
                        and expand Program participation by eligible 
                        homebuyers;
                            (iii) subject to subparagraph (C) of this 
                        paragraph and notwithstanding section 
                        203(b)(2)(C) of the National Housing Act (12 
                        U.S.C. 1709(b)(2)(C)), has a mortgage insurance 
                        premium of not more than 4 percent of the loan 
                        balance that is paid at closing, financed into 
                        the principal balance of the loan, paid through 
                        an annual premium, or a combination thereof;
                            (iv) involves a rate of interest that is 
                        fixed over the term of the mortgage loan; and
                            (v) is secured by a single-family residence 
                        that is the principal residence of an eligible 
                        homebuyer.
                    (B) The term ``covered mortgage loan'' means, for 
                purposes of the Program established by the Secretary of 
                Agriculture, a loan guaranteed under section 502(h) of 
                the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472(h)) that--
                            (i) notwithstanding section 502(h)(7)(A) of 
                        the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 
                        1472(h)(7)(A)), is made for an original term of 
                        20 years or for an original term determined by 
                        the Secretary to be necessary to develop 
                        liquidity for securities backed by covered 
                        mortgage loans and expand Program participation 
                        by eligible homebuyers; and
                            (ii) subject to subparagraph (C) of this 
                        paragraph and notwithstanding section 
                        502(h)(8)(A) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 
                        U.S.C. 1472(h)(8)(A)), has a loan guarantee fee 
                        of not more than 4 percent of the principal 
                        obligation of the loan.
                    (C) Waiver of mortgage insurance premium 
                requirement.--Each Secretary, in consultation with the 
                Secretary of the Treasury, and notwithstanding section 
                502(h)(8)(A) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 
                1472(h)(8)(A)) for purposes of the Program established 
                by the Secretary of Agriculture, may waive the mortgage 
                insurance premium cap or loan guarantee fee cap under 
                subparagraphs (A)(iii) and (B)(ii) with respect to 
                covered mortgage loans insured or guaranteed by the 
                Loan Guarantee Agency of which that Secretary is the 
                head if necessary to protect the solvency of the 
                associated insurance fund.
            (3) Department.--Unless otherwise specified, the term 
        ``Department'' means the Department of Housing and Urban 
        Development or the Department of Agriculture, as appropriate.
            (4) Eligible homebuyer.--The term ``eligible homebuyer'' 
        means an individual who--
                    (A) for purposes of the Program established by the 
                Secretary of Housing and Urban Development--
                            (i) has an annual household income that is 
                        less than or equal to--
                                    (I) 120 percent of median income 
                                for the area, as determined by the 
                                Secretary of Housing and Urban 
                                Development for--
                                            (aa) the area in which the 
                                        home to be acquired using such 
                                        assistance is located; or
                                            (bb) the area in which the 
                                        place of residence of the 
                                        homebuyer is located; or
                                    (II) if the homebuyer is acquiring 
                                an eligible home that is located in a 
                                high-cost area, 140 percent of the 
                                median income, as determined by the 
                                Secretary, for the area within which 
                                the eligible home to be acquired using 
                                assistance provided under this section 
                                is located;
                            (ii) is a first-time homebuyer, as defined 
                        in paragraph (6) of this subsection; and
                            (iii) (iii) is a first-generation homebuyer 
                        as defined in paragraph (5) of this subsection;
                    (B) for purposes of the Program established by the 
                Secretary of Agriculture--
                            (i) meets the applicable requirements in 
                        section 502(h) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 
                        U.S.C. 1472(h)); and
                            (ii) is a first-time homebuyer as defined 
                        in paragraph (6) of this subsection and a 
                        first-generation homebuyer as defined in 
                        paragraph (5) of this subsection.
            (5) First-generation homebuyer.--The term ``first-
        generation homebuyer'' means a homebuyer that, as attested by 
        the homebuyer, is--
                    (A) an individual--
                            (i) whose living parents or legal guardians 
                        do not, to the best of the individual's 
                        knowledge, have any present fee simple 
                        ownership interest in a principal residence in 
                        any State, excluding ownership of heir 
                        property;
                            (ii) if no parents or legal guardians are 
                        living upon acquisition of the eligible home to 
                        be acquired using such assistance, to the best 
                        of the individual's knowledge, whose parents or 
                        legal guardians did not have any ownership 
                        interest in a principal residence in any State 
                        at the time of their death, excluding ownership 
                        of heir property; and
                            (iii) whose spouse, or domestic partner has 
                        not, during the 3-year period ending upon 
                        acquisition of the eligible home to be acquired 
                        using such assistance, had any present 
                        ownership interest in a principal residence in 
                        any State, excluding ownership of heir 
                        property, whether the individual is a co-
                        borrower on the loan or not; or
                    (B) an individual who has at any time been placed 
                in foster care or institutional care whose spouse or 
                domestic partner has not, during the 3-year period 
                ending upon acquisition of the eligible home to be 
                acquired using such assistance, had any ownership 
                interest in a principal residence in any State, 
                excluding ownership of heir property, whether such 
                individuals are co-borrowers on the loan or not.
            (6) First-time homebuyer.--The term ``first-time 
        homebuyer'' means a homebuyer as defined in section 104 of the 
        Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 
        12704), except that ownership of heir property shall not be 
        treated as owning a home for purposes of determining whether a 
        borrower qualifies as a first-time homebuyer.
            (7) Heir property.--The term ``heir property'' means 
        residential property for which title passed by operation of law 
        through intestacy and is held by two or more heirs as tenants 
        in common.
            (8) Loan guarantee agency.--Unless otherwise specified, the 
        term ``Loan Guarantee Agency'' means the Federal Housing 
        Administration of the Department of Housing and Urban 
        Development or the Rural Housing Service of the Department of 
        Agriculture, as appropriate.
            (9) Secretary.--Unless otherwise specified, the term 
        ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development or the Secretary of Agriculture, as appropriate.
    (f) Reliance on Borrower Attestations.--No additional documentation 
beyond the borrower's attestation shall be required to demonstrate 
eligibility under paragraph (4) of subsection (e) and no State, 
eligible entity, or creditor shall be subject to liability, including 
monetary penalties or requirements to indemnify a Federal agency or 
repurchase a loan that has been sold or securitized, based on the 
provision of assistance under this section to a borrower who does not 
meet the eligibility requirements under paragraph (4) of subsection (e) 
if the creditor does so in good faith reliance on borrower attestations 
of eligibility required under such paragraph.
    (g) Implementation.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of 
Treasury shall have authority to issue such regulations or other 
notices, guidance, forms, instructions, and publications as may be 
necessary or appropriate to carry out the programs, projects, or 
activities authorized under this section, including to ensure that such 
programs, projects, or activities are completed in a timely and 
effective manner.

SEC. 40203. HUD-INSURED SMALL DOLLAR MORTGAGE DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
(in this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated--
            (1) $76,000,000 for a program to increase access to small-
        dollar mortgages, as defined in subsection (b), which may 
        include payment of incentives to lenders, adjustments to terms 
        and costs, individual financial assistance, technical 
        assistance to lenders and certain financial institutions to 
        help originate loans, lender and borrower outreach, and other 
        activities;
            (2) $10,000,000 for the cost of insured or guaranteed 
        loans, including the cost of modifying loans, as defined in 
        section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 
        661a); and
            (3) $14,000,000 for the costs to the Secretary of 
        administering and overseeing the implementation of this section 
        and programs in the Office of Housing generally, including 
        information technology, financial reporting, research and 
        evaluations, fair lending compliance, and other cross-program 
        costs in support of programs administered by the Secretary in 
        this title, and other costs; the Secretary may transfer and 
        merge amounts appropriated by this paragraph to section 40301.
Amounts appropriated by this section shall remain available until 
September 30, 2031.
    (b) Small-dollar Mortgage.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``small-dollar mortgage'' means a forward mortgage that--
            (1) has an original principal balance of $100,000 or less;
            (2) is secured by a one- to four-unit property that is the 
        mortgagor's principal residence; and
            (3) is insured by the Secretary pursuant to title II of the 
        National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1707 et seq.), or guaranteed by 
        the Secretary pursuant to section 184 or 184A of the Housing 
        and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a, 
        1715z-13b).
    (c) Implementation.--The Secretary shall have authority to issue 
such regulations or other notices, guidance, forms, instructions, and 
publications as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
programs, projects, or activities authorized under this section, 
including to ensure that such programs, projects, or activities are 
completed in a timely and effective manner.

SEC. 40204. INVESTMENTS IN RURAL HOMEOWNERSHIP.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture (in this section 
referred to as the ``Secretary''), out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated--
            (1) $70,000,000 for direct loans made under section 502 of 
        the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472);
            (2) $95,000,000 for providing single family housing repair 
        grants under section 504 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 
        1474), subject to the terms and conditions in subsection (b) of 
        this section;
            (3) $25,000,000 for grants under section 523 of the Housing 
        Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c); and
            (4) $10,000,000 for administrative expenses of the 
        Secretary that in whole or in part support activities funded by 
        this section and related activities.
Amounts appropriated by this section shall remain available until 
expended.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--
            (1) Eligibility.--Eligibility for grants from amounts made 
        available by subsection (a)(2) shall not be subject to the 
        limitations in section 3550.103(b) of title 7, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
            (2) Uses.--Notwithstanding the limitations in section 
        3550.102(a) of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, grants 
        from amounts made available by subsection (a)(2) shall be 
        available for the eligible purposes in section 3550.102(b) of 
        title 7, Code of Federal Regulations.

SEC. 40205. SELF-HELP HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITY PROGRAM.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any amounts in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development--
            (1) $49,500,000 for grants under section 11 of the Housing 
        Opportunity Program Extension Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 12805 
        note); and
            (2) $500,000 for costs to the Secretary of administering 
        and overseeing the implementation of this section, including 
        information technology, financial reporting, research and 
        evaluations, fair lending compliance, and other cross-program 
        costs in support of programs administered by the Secretary in 
        this title, and other costs.
Amounts appropriated by this section shall remain available until 
September 30, 2031.
