---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# C. 21001. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the 
Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, the following amounts:
            (1) $195,000,000 to the Employee Benefits Security 
        Administration for carrying out enforcement activities.
            (2) $707,000,000 to the Occupational Safety and Health 
        Administration for carrying out enforcement, standards 
        development, whistleblower investigations, compliance 
        assistance, funding for State plans, and related activities 
        within the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
            (3) $133,000,000 to the Mine Safety and Health 
        Administration for carrying out enforcement, standard setting, 
        technical assistance, and related activities.
            (4) $405,000,000 to the Wage and Hour Division for carrying 
        out activities.
            (5) $121,000,000 to the Office of Workers' Compensation 
        Programs for carrying out activities of the Office relating to 
        claims activity, policy and standards development, and 
        monitoring of State workers' compensation programs.
            (6) $201,000,000 to the Office of Federal Contract 
        Compliance Programs for carrying out audit, investigation, 
        enforcement, and compliance assistance, and other activities.
            (7) $176,000,000 to the Office of the Solicitor for 
        carrying out necessary legal support for activities carried out 
        by the Office related to and in support of the activities of 
        those Department of Labor agencies receiving additional funding 
        in this section.

SEC. 21002. NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the 
National Labor Relations Board for fiscal year 2022, $350,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2026, for carrying out the 
activities of the Board, of which not more than $5,000,000 shall be for 
the implementation of systems to conduct electronic voting for union 
representation elections.

SEC. 21003. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the 
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for fiscal year 2022, 
$321,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, for 
carrying out investigation, enforcement, outreach, and related 
activities.

SEC. 21004. ADJUSTMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

    (a) Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.--Section 17 of the 
Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 666) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``$70,000'' and inserting 
                ``$700,000''; and
                    (B) by striking ``$5,000'' and inserting 
                ``$50,000'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``$7,000'' and inserting 
        ``$70,000''; and
            (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``$7,000'' and inserting 
        ``$70,000''.
    (b) Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938.--Section 16(e) of the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 216(e)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(A)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``$11,000'' and 
                inserting ``$132,270''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``$50,000'' and 
                inserting ``$601,150''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``$1,100'' 
                and inserting ``$20,740''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``$1,100'' 
                and inserting ``$11,620''.
    (c) Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act.--
Section 503(a)(1) of the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker 
Protection Act (29 U.S.C. 1853(a)(1)) is amended by striking ``$1,000'' 
and inserting ``$25,790''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2022.

SEC. 21005. CIVIL MONETARY PENALTIES FOR PARITY VIOLATIONS.

    (a) Civil Monetary Penalties Relating to Parity in Mental Health 
and Substance Use Disorders.--Section 502(c)(10) of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1132(c)(10)(A)) is 
amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``use of genetic 
        information'' and inserting ``use of genetic information and 
        parity in mental health and substance use disorder benefits''; 
        and
            (2) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) by striking ``any plan sponsor of a group 
                health plan'' and inserting ``any plan sponsor or plan 
                administrator of a group health plan''; and
                    (B) by striking ``for any failure'' and all that 
                follows through ``in connection with the plan.'' and 
                inserting ``for any failure by such sponsor, 
                administrator, or issuer, in connection with the plan--
                            ``(i) to meet the requirements of 
                        subsection (a)(1)(F), (b)(3), (c), or (d) of 
                        section 702 or section 701 or 702(b)(1) with 
                        respect to genetic information; or
                            ``(ii) to meet the requirements of 
                        subsection (a) of section 712 with respect to 
                        parity in mental health and substance use 
                        disorder benefits.''.
    (b) Exception to the General Prohibition on Enforcement.--Section 
502 of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1132) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(6), by striking ``or (9)'' and 
        inserting ``(9), or (10)''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(3)--
                    (A) by striking ``subsections (c)(9) and (a)(6)'' 
                and inserting ``subsections (c)(9), (c)(10), and 
                (a)(6)'';
                    (B) by striking ``under subsection (c)(9))'' and 
                inserting ``under subsections (c)(9) and (c)(10)), and 
                except with respect to enforcement by the Secretary of 
                section 712''; and
                    (C) by striking ``706(a)(1)'' and inserting 
                ``733(a)(1)''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to group health plans, or any health insurance 
issuer offering health insurance coverage in connection with such plan, 
for plan years beginning after the date that is 1 year after the date 
of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 21006. PENALTIES UNDER THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS ACT.

    (a) In General.--Section 12 of the National Labor Relations Act (29 
U.S.C. 162) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``sec. 12. Any person'' and inserting the 
        following:

``SEC. 12. PENALTIES.

    ``(a) Violations for Interference With Board.--Any person''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Civil Penalties for Unfair Labor Practices.--Any employer who 
commits an unfair labor practice within the meaning of section 8(a) 
affecting commerce shall be subject to a civil penalty in an amount not 
to exceed $50,000 for each such violation, except that, with respect to 
such an unfair labor practice within the meaning of paragraph (3) or 
(4) of section 8(a) or such a violation of section 8(a) that results in 
the discharge of an employee or other serious economic harm to an 
employee, the Board shall double the amount of such penalty, to an 
amount not to exceed $100,000, in any case where the employer has 
within the preceding 5 years committed another such violation of such 
paragraph (3) or (4) or such violation of section 8(a) that results in 
such discharge or other serious economic harm. A civil penalty under 
this paragraph shall be in addition to any other remedy ordered by the 
Board.
    ``(c) Considerations.--In determining the amount of any civil 
penalty under this section, the Board shall consider--
            ``(1) the gravity of the actions of the employer resulting 
        in the penalty, including the impact of such actions on the 
        charging party or on other persons seeking to exercise rights 
        guaranteed by this Act;
            ``(2) the size of the employer;
            ``(3) the history of previous unfair labor practices or 
        other actions by the employer resulting in a penalty; and
            ``(4) the public interest.
    ``(d) Director and Officer Liability.--If the Board determines, 
based on the particular facts and circumstances presented, that a 
director or officer's personal liability is warranted, a civil penalty 
for a violation described in this section may also be assessed against 
any director or officer of the employer who directed or committed the 
violation, had established a policy that led to such a violation, or 
had actual or constructive knowledge of and the authority to prevent 
the violation and failed to prevent the violation.''.
    (b) Additional Penalties.--The National Labor Relations Act (29 
U.S.C. 151 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 12 (29 U.S.C. 
162) the following:

``SEC. 12A. ADDITIONAL PENALTIES.

    ``(a) Civil Penalties for Additional Conduct.--Any employer who 
violates subsection (d) affecting commerce shall be subject to a civil 
penalty in an amount not to exceed $50,000 for each such violation, 
except that, with respect to such a violation that results in the 
discharge of an employee or other serious economic harm to an employee, 
the Board shall double the amount of such penalty, to an amount not to 
exceed $100,000, in any case where the employer has within the 
preceding 5 years committed another such violation of subsection (d) 
that results in such discharge or other serious economic harm.
    ``(b) Considerations.--In determining the amount of any civil 
penalty under this section, the Board shall consider--
            ``(1) the gravity of the actions of the employer resulting 
        in the penalty, including the impact of such actions on the 
        charging party or on other persons seeking to exercise rights 
        guaranteed by this Act;
            ``(2) the size of the employer;
            ``(3) the history of previous unfair labor practices or 
        other actions by the employer resulting in a penalty; and
            ``(4) the public interest.
    ``(c) Director and Officer Liability.--If the Board determines, 
based on the particular facts and circumstances presented, that a 
director or officer's personal liability is warranted, a civil penalty 
for a violation described in this section may also be assessed against 
any director or officer of the employer who directed or committed the 
violation, had established a policy that led to such a violation, or 
had actual or constructive knowledge of and the authority to prevent 
the violation and failed to prevent the violation.
    ``(d) Prohibition.--It shall be unlawful for an employer--
            ``(1) to promise, threaten, or take any action--
                    ``(A) to permanently replace an employee who 
                participates in a strike as defined by section 501(2) 
                of the Labor Management Relations Act, 1947 (29 U.S.C. 
                142(2));
                    ``(B) to discriminate against an employee who is 
                working or has unconditionally offered to return to 
                work for the employer because the employee supported or 
                participated in such a strike; or
                    ``(C) to lockout, suspend, or otherwise withhold 
                employment from employees in order to influence the 
                position of such employees or the representative of 
                such employees in collective bargaining prior to a 
                strike;
            ``(2) to communicate or misrepresent to an employee under 
        section 2(3) that such employee is excluded from the definition 
        of employee under section 2(3);
            ``(3) to require or coerce an employee to attend or 
        participate in such employer's campaign activities unrelated to 
        the employee's job duties, including activities that are 
        subject to the requirements under section 203(b) of the Labor-
        Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 (29 U.S.C. 
        433(b)); or
            ``(4) to violate subsection (e).
    ``(e) Collective Action.--
            ``(1) In general.--No employer shall--
                    ``(A) enter into or attempt to enforce any 
                agreement, express or implied, whereby prior to a 
                dispute to which the agreement applies, an employee 
                undertakes or promises not to pursue, bring, join, 
                litigate, or support any kind of joint, class, or 
                collective claim arising from or relating to the 
                employment of such employee in any forum that, but for 
                such agreement, is of competent jurisdiction;
                    ``(B) coerce an employee into undertaking or 
                promising not to pursue, bring, join, litigate, or 
                support any kind of joint, class, or collective claim 
                arising from or relating to the employment of such 
                employee; or
                    ``(C) retaliate or threaten to retaliate against an 
                employee for refusing to undertake or promise not to 
                pursue, bring, join, litigate, or support any kind of 
                joint, class, or collective claim arising from or 
                relating to the employment of such employee.
            ``(2) Exception.--This subsection shall not apply to any 
        agreement embodied in or expressly permitted by a contract 
        between an employer and a labor organization.
    ``(f) Enforcement.--The provisions of section 10 and 11 shall apply 
to a violation of this section in the same manner as such provisions 
apply to an unfair labor practice, except that--
            ``(1) an order under section 10 with respect to a violation 
        of this section--
                    ``(A) shall require only that the person in such 
                violation pay a civil penalty under subsection (a); and
                    ``(B) shall not include a requirement for a person 
                to cease and desist such violation or any form of 
                affirmative action other than the payment of such 
                penalty;
            ``(2) a petition under subsection (e) of section 10 with 
        respect to a violation of this section may be only for 
        enforcement of an order for the payment of a civil penalty 
        under subsection (a);
            ``(3) a petition under subsection (f) of section 10 with 
        respect to a violation of this section may be only for review 
        of an order for the payment of such a civil penalty; and
            ``(4) a court under section 10 may not grant any form of 
        relief, including temporary relief, a restraining order, or any 
        other form of injunctive relief, for a violation of this 
        section other than a decree to enforce, modify, or set aside in 
        whole or in part an order of the Board imposing a civil penalty 
        under subsection (a) for a violation of this section.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2022.
