---
sidebar_position: 1
---

PART 5--WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS IN SUPPORT OF COMMUNITIES AND 
                            THE ENVIRONMENT

SEC. 22401. CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Americorps state and national programs.--
                    (A) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
                made available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 
                2023, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
                appropriated, to the Corporation for National and 
                Community Service, $1,305,000,000, to remain available 
                until September 30, 2027, for carrying out national 
                service programs authorized under section 122(a)(3)(B) 
                of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 
                U.S.C. 12572(a)(3)(B)) which shall be used to make 
                funding adjustments to existing (as of the date of 
                enactment of this Act) awards and make new awards to 
                entities to support national service programs 
                authorized under the AmeriCorps State and National 
                program (whether or not the entities are already grant 
                recipients under such provisions on the date of 
                enactment of this Act) and to increase the living 
                allowances of participants in national service 
                programs.
                    (B) Waiver of matching requirement.--For the 
                purposes of carrying out this subparagraph, the 
                Corporation shall waive any match requirement in whole 
                or in part where a grantee demonstrates such waiver 
                would increase access and remove barriers for 
                organizations that serve communities that are adversely 
                affected by persistent poverty, discrimination, or 
                inequality.
            (2) National civilian community corps.--In addition to 
        amounts otherwise made available, there is appropriated for 
        fiscal year 2023, out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, to the Corporation for National and 
        Community Service, $80,000,000, to remain available until 
        September 30, 2027, for carrying out the National Civilian 
        Community Corps authorized under section 152 of the National 
        and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12612).
            (3) Volunteers in service to america program.--In addition 
        to amounts otherwise made available, there is appropriated for 
        fiscal year 2023, out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, to the Corporation for National and 
        Community Service, $100,000,000, to remain available until 
        September 30, 2027, for carrying out the Volunteers in Service 
        to America (VISTA) program for the purposes described in 
        section 101 of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 
        U.S.C. 4951), including to increase the living allowances of 
        volunteers, described in section 105(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
        4955).
            (4) State commissions.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        made available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2023, out 
        of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the 
        Corporation for National and Community Service, $40,000,000, to 
        remain available until September 30, 2027, to make adjustments 
        to existing (as of the date of enactment of this Act) awards 
        and new and additional awards, including awards to State 
        Commissions on National and Community Service, under section 
        126(a) of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 
        U.S.C. 12576(a)).
            (5) Use of funds.--Amounts made available under paragraphs 
        (1) through (4) shall be used by the Corporation for National 
        and Community Service to carry out activities described in 
        section 122(a)(3)(B) of the National and Community Service Act 
        of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12572(a)(3)(B)) and for activities related 
        to environmental resiliency, remediation, or mitigation by--
                    (A) ensuring at least 50 percent of such funds are 
                awarded to entities that serve, and have representation 
                from, low-income communities, Tribal, Alaska Native, or 
                Native Hawaiian communities, or communities 
                experiencing (or at risk of experiencing) adverse 
                health and environmental conditions;
                    (B) taking into account the diversity of 
                communities served by such entities and the diversity 
                of AmeriCorps members serving in these projects, 
                including racial, ethnic, socioeconomic, linguistic, or 
                geographic diversity, and utilizing culturally 
                competent and multilingual strategies in the provision 
                of services to communities and in the recruitment of 
                members;
                    (C) supporting projects that are planned and 
                implemented with the community served by such 
                activities;
                    (D) providing participants with workforce 
                development opportunities such as pre-apprenticeship 
                programs that articulate to registered apprenticeships, 
                and pathways to post-service employment in high-quality 
                jobs or registered apprenticeships; and
                    (E) coordinating with and providing resources to 
                the Departments of Labor and Education to improve the 
                readiness of participants to transition to high-quality 
                jobs or further education.
    (b) Administrative Costs.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise made 
        available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of 
        any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the 
        Corporation for National and Community Service, $199,650,000, 
        to remain available until September 30, 2027, which shall be 
        used for administrative expenses as provided under section 
        501(a)(5) of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 
        U.S.C. 12681(a)(5)) and under section 504(a) of the Domestic 
        Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 5084(a)), including an 
        evaluation of the Corporation's information technology 
        security, corrective actions to address recommendations arising 
        from audits of the agency and the National Service Trust, and, 
        in consultation with the Inspector General, the development of 
        grant fraud prevention and detection controls and risk-based 
        anti-fraud grant monitoring. Not less than 5 percent of funds 
        under this paragraph shall be reserved for outreach to and 
        recruitment of members from communities traditionally 
        underrepresented in the programs and activities funded under 
        this section.
            (2) Project, operations, and management plan.--In addition 
        to amounts otherwise made available, there is appropriated for 
        fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, to the Corporation for National and 
        Community Service, $350,000, to remain available until 
        September 30, 2023, which shall be used by the Chief Executive 
        Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service 
        in collaboration with the Department of Labor, to develop, 
        issue, and implement a project, operations, and management plan 
        for funds appropriated under this section. In developing the 
        financial management portion of the plan, the Chief Executive 
        Officer shall consult with the Inspector General. Such plan 
        shall be provided to the Committee on Education and Labor of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, 
        Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate prior to 
        obligating funds or making outlays for funds appropriated under 
        subsection (a).
    (c) Office of Inspector General.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
made available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the Office of 
Inspector General of the Corporation for National and Community 
Service, $15,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2030, 
which shall be used by the Office of Inspector General of the 
Corporation for National and Community Service for salaries and 
expenses necessary for oversight and audit of programs, activities and 
operations funded under this section.
    (d) National Service Trust.--In addition to amounts otherwise made 
available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2023, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the National Service 
Trust, $260,000,000, to remain available until expended, for--
            (1) administration of the National Service Trust; and
            (2) payment to the Trust for the provision of educational 
        awards pursuant to section 145(a)(1)(A) and section 148 of the 
        National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
        12601(a)(1)(A); 12604).

SEC. 22402. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Youthbuild program.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        made available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2023, out 
        of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the 
        Department of Labor, $250,000,000, to remain available until 
        September 30, 2027, except that no amounts may be expended 
        after September 30, 2031, for the YouthBuild program authorized 
        under section 171(c)(1) of the Workforce Innovation and 
        Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3226(c)(1)), including for the 
        purposes of improving and expanding access to services, 
        stipends, wages, and benefits described in subsections 
        (c)(2)(A)(vii) and (c)(2)(F) of section 171 of such Act.
            (2) Job corps program.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        made available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2023, out 
        of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the 
        Department of Labor, $500,000,000, to remain available until 
        September 30, 2030, except that no amounts may be expended 
        after September 30, 2031, for the Job Corps program authorized 
        under section 143 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
        Act (29 U.S.C. 3193 et seq.), including Civilian Conservation 
        Centers as described in section 147(d)(1) of such Act (29 
        U.S.C. 3197) and for the purposes of improving and expanding 
        access to allowances and supports described in section 150 of 
        such Act (29 U.S.C. 3200).
            (3) Ex-offender activities.--In addition to amounts 
        otherwise made available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 
        2023, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
        appropriated, to the Department of Labor, $500,000,000, to 
        remain available until September 30, 2027, except that no 
        amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for ex-
        offender activities under the authority of section 169(b)(5) of 
        the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
        3224(b)(5)).
            (4) Apprenticeship programs.--In addition to amounts 
        otherwise made available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 
        2023, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
        appropriated, to the Department of Labor, $1,000,000,000, to 
        remain available until September 30, 2027, except that no 
        amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, to carry out 
        activities through grants, cooperative agreements, contracts or 
        other arrangements, with States and other appropriate entities, 
        including equity intermediaries and business and labor industry 
        partner intermediaries, to create or expand only apprenticeship 
        programs registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly 
        known as the ``National Apprenticeship Act''; 50 Stat. 664, 
        chapter 663; 29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.), youth apprenticeship 
        programs, and pre-apprenticeship programs articulating to 
        apprenticeship programs registered under such Act.
            (5) Paid youth employment activities.--In addition to 
        amounts otherwise made available, there is appropriated for 
        fiscal year 2023, out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, to the Department of Labor, 
        $249,800,000, to remain available until September 30, 2030, 
        except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 
        2031, for paid youth employment activities under the authority 
        of section 169(b)(5) of the Workforce Innovation and 
        Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3224(b)(5)) for in-school and out-
        of-school youth as defined in section 3 of such Act (29 U.S.C. 
        3102).
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available under paragraphs (1) 
through (8) of subsection (a) shall be used for activities to include 
training for careers in industry sectors and occupations related to 
environmental resiliency, remediation, or mitigation and activities to 
increase diversity within such industry sectors and occupations, taking 
into account the diversity of communities and participants served by 
such programs, including racial, ethnic, socioeconomic, linguistic, or 
geographic diversity.
    (c) Project, Operations, and Management Plan.--In addition to 
amounts otherwise made available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to 
the Department of Labor, $200,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2023, which shall be used by the Secretary of Labor in 
collaboration with the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for 
National and Community Service, to develop and issue a project, 
operations, and management plan for funds appropriated under this 
section. Such plan shall be provided to the Committee on Education and 
Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate prior to obligating funds 
or making outlays for funds appropriated under subsection (a).
