---
sidebar_position: 1
---

PART 2--DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

SEC. 22101. ADULT EDUCATION AND LITERACY.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise made available, 
there is appropriated to the Department of Education for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$3,600,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2028, to carry 
out title II of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
3101 et seq.), which shall be reserved, and granted and allotted to 
eligible agencies in accordance with subsections (a), (b), and (c) of 
section 211 of such Act, respectively.
    (b) Requirement.--With respect to each eligible agency that 
receives funds appropriated by this section, for each fiscal year for 
which such eligible agency receives such funds, section 222(a)(1) of 
the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3302(a)(1)) the 
shall be applied by substituting ``not less than 10 percent'' for ``not 
more than 20 percent''.

SEC. 22102. CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise made available, 
there is appropriated to the Department of Education for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the 
following amounts, to remain available until September 30, 2028:
            (1) $3,000,000,000 for carrying out career and technical 
        education programs authorized under section 124 and section 135 
        of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 
        2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.), which shall be allotted in 
        accordance with section 111 and section 112 of such Act (20 
        U.S.C. 2321, 2322), except that subsection (b) of section 112 
        of such Act (20 U.S.C. 2322) shall not apply.
            (2) $1,000,000,000 for carrying out the innovation and 
        modernization program described in subsection(e) of section 114 
        of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 
        2006 (20 U.S.C. 2324(e)), except that for purposes of this 
        paragraph--
                    (A) the 20 percent limitation in paragraph (1) of 
                such subsection, and paragraph (2) of such subsection, 
                shall not apply; and
                    (B) eligible agencies (as defined in section 3 of 
                such Act) shall be eligible to receive grants under 
                section 114(e) of such Act.
    (b) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts made available to carry out 
this section shall be used to supplement and not supplant other 
Federal, State, and local public funds expended for career and 
technical education programs, including the funds provided under the 
Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 
2301 et seq.).
