---
sidebar_position: 1
---

PART 1--DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

SEC. 22001. DISLOCATED WORKER EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise made available, 
there is appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$16,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, except 
that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, which shall 
be reserved and allotted to States in accordance with subsection (b)(2) 
of section 132 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
U.S.C. 3172), reserved and allocated to local areas in accordance with 
subsections (a) and (b)(1)(B) of section 133 of such Act (29 U.S.C. 
3173), and reserved by such local areas as follows:
            (1) Not less than 20 percent shall be reserved for carrying 
        out the career services authorized under subsection (c)(2) of 
        section 134 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
        U.S.C. 3174) and expanding access to the individualized career 
        services described in section 134(c)(2)(A)(xii) of such Act (29 
        U.S.C. 3174(c)(2)(A)(xii)).
            (2) Not less than 20 percent shall be reserved for carrying 
        out the supportive services and providing the needs-related 
        payments authorized under paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 
        134(d) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
        U.S.C. 3174(d)), except that for purposes of the reservation 
        under this paragraph the requirements of subparagraphs (B) and 
        (C) of paragraph (3) of such section shall not apply; and
            (3) Not less than 50 percent shall be reserved for carrying 
        out the training services--
                    (A) of which, not less than 60 percent shall be 
                made available for individual training accounts 
                authorized under section 134(c)(3) of the Workforce 
                Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3174(c)(3)).
                    (B) except that for purposes of providing 
                transitional jobs as part of those services under this 
                section, section 134(d)(5) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 
                3174(d)(5)) shall be applied by substituting ``40 
                percent'' for ``10 percent''.
    (b) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts made available to carry out 
this section shall be used to supplement and not supplant other 
Federal, State, and local public funds expended to provide employment 
and training activities for dislocated workers, including funds 
provided under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
3101 et seq.).

SEC. 22002. ADULT WORKER EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise made available, 
there is appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$15,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, except 
that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, which shall 
be reserved and allotted to States in accordance with subsection (b)(1) 
of section 132 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
U.S.C. 3172), reserved and allocated to local areas in accordance with 
subsections (a) and (b)(1)(A) of section 133 of such Act (29 U.S.C. 
3173), and reserved by such local areas as follows:
            (1) Not less than 20 percent shall be reserved for carrying 
        out the career services authorized under subsection (c)(2) of 
        section 134 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
        U.S.C. 3174) and expanding access to the individualized career 
        services described in section 134(c)(2)(A)(xii) of such Act (29 
        U.S.C. 3174(c)(2)(A)(xii)).
            (2) Not less than 10 percent shall be reserved for carrying 
        out the supportive services and providing the needs-related 
        payments authorized under paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 
        134(d) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
        U.S.C. 3174(d)).
            (3) Not less than 50 percent shall be reserved for carrying 
        out the training services--
                    (A) of which, not less than 60 percent shall be 
                made available for individual training accounts or 
                contracts authorized under of section 134(c)(3) of the 
                Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
                3174(c)(3)); and
                    (B) except that for purposes of providing incumbent 
                worker training as part of those services under this 
                section, if such training is provided to low-wage 
                workers, section 134(d)(4)(A)(i) of the Workforce 
                Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
                3174(d)(4)(A)(i)) shall be applied by substituting ``40 
                percent'' for ``20 percent''.
    (b) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts made available to carry out 
this section shall be used to supplement and not supplant other 
Federal, State, and local public funds expended to provide adult 
employment and training activities, including funds provided under the 
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.).

SEC. 22003. YOUTH WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise made available, 
there is appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$9,054,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, except 
that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, which shall 
be reserved and allotted to States in accordance with subparagraphs (B) 
and (C) of section 127(b)(1) of the Workforce Innovation and 
Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3162(b)(1)), reserved and allocated to local 
areas in accordance with subsections (a) and (b) of section 128 of such 
Act (29 U.S.C. 3163), and reserved by such local areas as follows:
            (1) 25 percent shall be reserved for carrying out the youth 
        workforce investment activities authorized under section 129 of 
        the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3164 et 
        seq.).
            (2) 75 percent shall be reserved to provide opportunities 
        for in-school youth and out-of-school youth to participate in 
        paid work experiences described in subsection (c)(2)(C) of 
        section 129 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
        U.S.C. 3164).
    (b) Partnerships.--Not less than 20 percent of amounts made 
available under subsection (a) shall be used by local areas to partner 
with community-based organizations serving out-of-school youth to carry 
out activities described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a), 
including those residing in high-crime or high-poverty areas.
    (c) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts made available to carry out 
this section shall be used to supplement and not supplant other 
Federal, State, and local public funds expended for youth workforce 
investment activities, including funds provided under the Workforce 
Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.).

SEC. 22004. EMPLOYMENT SERVICE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the following 
amounts, to remain available until September 30, 2026, except that no 
amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031
            (1) $1,250,000,000 for carrying out the State grant 
        activities authorized under section 7 of the Wagner-Peyser Act 
        (29 U.S.C. 49f), which shall be allotted in accordance with 
        section 6 of such Act (29 U.S.C. 49e), except that, for 
        purposes of this section, funds shall also be provided to the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands and American Samoa 
        in amounts the Secretary determines appropriate prior to the 
        allotments being made in accordance with section 6 of such Act 
        (29 U.S.C. 49d).
            (2) $100,000,000 for carrying out improvements to the 
        workforce and labor market information systems authorized under 
        section 15 of the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49l-2).

SEC. 22005. RE-ENTRY EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $3,600,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2026, except that no amounts 
may be expended after September 30, 2031, for carrying out ex-offender 
activities, under the authority of section 169 of the Workforce 
Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3224). Not less than 25 
percent of such funds shall be for competitive grants to national and 
regional intermediaries for activities that prepare for employment of 
young adults with criminal records, young adults who have been justice 
system-involved, or young adults who have dropped out of school or 
other educational programs, with a priority for projects serving high-
crime, high-poverty areas.

SEC. 22006. REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIPS, YOUTH APPRENTICESHIPS, AND PRE-
              APPRENTICESHIPS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise made available, 
there is appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$5,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, except 
that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, to carry out 
activities through grants, cooperative agreements, contracts or other 
arrangements, with States and other appropriate entities, including 
equity intermediaries and business and labor industry partner 
intermediaries, to create or expand only--
            (1) apprenticeship programs registered under the Act of 
        August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the ``National 
        Apprenticeship Act''; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 29 U.S.C. 50 
        et seq.); and
            (2) youth apprenticeship programs and pre-apprenticeship 
        programs that articulate to apprenticeship programs described 
        in paragraph (1).
    (b) Reservation.--Not less than 50 percent of the funds made 
available under section (a) shall be reserved for--
            (1) entities serving a high number or high percentage of 
        individuals with barriers to employment (as defined in section 
        3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
        3102)), including individuals with disabilities, or 
        nontraditional apprenticeship populations; or
            (2) youth apprenticeships or pre-apprenticeships that 
        articulate to such registered apprenticeships programs.

SEC. 22007. COMMUNITY COLLEGE AND INDUSTRY PARTNERSHIP GRANTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) Eligible institution.--The term ``eligible 
        institution'' means an institution of higher education (as 
        defined in section 101 or 102(c) of the Higher Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001, 1002(c)), including a Tribal College or 
        University (as defined in section 316 of such Act (20 U.S.C. 
        1059c)), or a consortium of such institutions--
                    (A) at which the highest degree awarded is an 
                associate degree; or an associate degree is the 
                predominant degree awarded; and
                    (B) that is working directly with an industry or 
                sector partnership, or in the process of establishing 
                such partnership, to carry out a grant under this 
                section.
            (2) Perkins cte definitions.--The terms ``career and 
        technical education'', ``career guidance and academic 
        counseling'' , ``dual or concurrent enrollment program'', 
        ``evidence-based'' and ``work-based learning'' have the 
        meanings given the terms in section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins 
        Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2302).
            (3) Registered apprenticeship program.--The term 
        ``registered apprenticeship program'' means an apprenticeship 
        registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as 
        the ``National Apprenticeship Act''; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 
        29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Labor.
            (5) Wioa definitions.--
                    (A) In general.--The terms ``career pathway'', 
                ``in-demand industry sector or occupation'', 
                ``individual with a barrier to employment'', ``industry 
                or sector partnership'', ``integrated education and 
                training'', ``recognized postsecondary credential'' and 
                ``supportive services'' have the meanings given the 
                terms in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and 
                Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).
                    (B) Career services.--The term ``career services'' 
                means services described in section 134(c)(2) of the 
                Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
                3174(c)(2)).
    (b) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise made available, 
there is appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$2,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, except 
that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, to carry out 
this section.
    (c) Grants.--From funds appropriated under subsection (b) and not 
reserved under subsection (e), and under the authority of section 
169(b)(5) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
3224(b)(5)), the Secretary shall award grants on a competitive basis to 
eligible institutions for the purposes of expanding workforce 
development and employment opportunities in high-skill, high-wage, or 
in-demand industry sectors or occupations. To receive such a grant, an 
eligible institution shall submit to the Secretary an application at 
such time, in such manner, and containing such information as specified 
by the Secretary, including a description of the related programs, 
recognized postsecondary credentials, and employment opportunities.
    (d) Use of Grant Funds.--
            (1) In general.--An eligible institution awarded a grant 
        under this section shall use such grant funds to expand 
        opportunities for attainment of recognized postsecondary 
        credentials that are nationally portable and stackable for 
        high-skill, high-wage, or in-demand industry sectors or 
        occupations by--
                    (A) establishing, improving, or scaling high-
                quality, evidence-based education and training 
                programs, such as career and technical education 
                programs, career pathway programs, and work-based 
                learning programs (including programs of registered 
                apprenticeships or pre-apprenticeships that articulate 
                to registered apprenticeships);
                    (B) creating, developing, or expanding articulation 
                agreements (as defined in section 486A(a) of the Higher 
                Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1093a(a))), credit 
                transfer agreements, corequisite remediation programs, 
                dual or concurrent enrollment programs, or policies and 
                processes to award academic credit for prior learning 
                or career training programs supported by the funds 
                described in subsection (c);
                    (C) making available open, searchable, and 
                comparable information on curriculum or recognized 
                postsecondary credentials, including those created or 
                developed using such funds, and information on the 
                related skills or competencies, and related employment 
                and earnings outcomes;
                    (D) establishing or implementing plans for 
                providers of programs supported with such funds to be 
                included on the eligible training services provider 
                list described in section 122(d) of the Workforce 
                Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3152(d));
                    (E) purchasing, leasing, or refurbishing 
                specialized equipment necessary to carry out the 
                education or career training programs supported by such 
                funds;
                    (F) reducing or eliminating out-of-pocket expenses 
                related to participants' cost of attendance in the 
                education or career training activities supported by 
                such funds; or
                    (G) establishing or expanding industry or sector 
                partnerships to successfully carry out the activities 
                described in subparagraphs (A) through (F).
            (2) Reservation.--An eligible institution awarded a grant 
        under this section shall use not less than 15 percent of such 
        grant funds to provide services to help individuals with 
        barriers to employment complete and successfully transition out 
        of education or career training programs supported by such 
        funds, which shall include providing supportive services, 
        career services, career guidance and academic counseling, or 
        job placement assistance.
    (e) Reservations.--From the amounts made available under subsection 
(b), the Secretary shall reserve not more than 5 percent for--
            (1) targeted outreach to eligible institutions serving a 
        high number or high percentage of low-income individuals or 
        individuals with barriers to employment, and rural-serving 
        eligible institutions, to provide guidance and assistance in 
        the grant application process under this section;
            (2) administration of the program described in this 
        section, including providing technical assistance and oversight 
        to support eligible institutions (including consortia of 
        eligible institutions); and
            (3) evaluating and reporting on the performance and impact 
        of programs funded under this section.
    (f) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts available to carry out this 
section shall be used to supplement and not supplant other Federal, 
State, and local public funds expended to support community college 
education or career training programs.

SEC. 22008. INDUSTRY OR SECTOR PARTNERSHIP GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise made available, 
there is appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$10,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, except 
that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, to carry out 
this section.
    (b) Grants.--From amounts appropriated under subsection (a) and not 
reserved under subsection (d), and under the authority of section 
169(b)(5) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
3224(b)(5)), the Secretary shall award grants on a competitive basis to 
eligible partnerships for the purposes of expanding workforce 
development and employment opportunities for high-skill, high-wage, or 
in-demand industry sectors or occupations, including information 
technology, clean energy, arts and entertainment, infrastructure and 
transportation, advanced manufacturing, health care, public health, 
home care, and early childhood care and education. To receive such a 
grant, an eligible partnership shall submit to the Secretary an 
application at such time, in such manner, and containing such 
information as specified by the Secretary.
    (c) Uses of Funds.--An eligible partnership awarded such a grant 
under this section shall use--
            (1) such grant funds to engage and regularly convene 
        stakeholders in a collaborative structure to identify, develop, 
        improve, or expand training, employment, and growth 
        opportunities for the high-skill, high-wage, or in-demand 
        industry sector or occupation on which such partnership is 
        focused;
            (2) not less than 50 percent of such grant funds to 
        directly provide, or arrange for the provision of, high-
        quality, evidence-based training for the high-skill, high-wage, 
        or in-demand industry sector or occupation on which such 
        partnership is focused, which shall include--
                    (A) training services described in any clause of 
                subparagraph (D) of section 134(c)(3) of the Workforce 
                Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3174(c)(3))) 
                provided through contracts that meet the requirements 
                of that section 134(c)(3); or
                    (B) training provided through registered 
                apprenticeship programs, youth apprenticeship, or pre-
                apprenticeship programs that articulate to registered 
                apprenticeship programs, or through joint labor-
                management partnerships; and
                    (C) establishing or implementing plans for 
                providers of programs supported with such funds to be 
                included on the eligible training services provider 
                list described in section 122(d) of the Workforce 
                Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3152(d)).
            (3) not less than 15 percent of such grant funds to 
        directly provide, or arrange for the provision of, services to 
        help individuals with barriers to employment complete and 
        successfully transition out of training described in paragraph 
        (2), which services shall include career services, supportive 
        services, or the provision of needs-related payments authorized 
        under subsections (c)(2), (d)(2), and (d)(3) of section 134 of 
        the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3174).
    (d) Reservations.--
            (1) In general.--From the amounts made available under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary shall reserve not more than 5 
        percent for--
                    (A) targeted outreach and support to eligible 
                partnerships serving local areas with high unemployment 
                rates or high percentages of individuals with low 
                incomes or individuals with barriers to employment, to 
                provide guidance and assistance in the grant 
                application process under this section;
                    (B) administration of the program described in this 
                section, including providing comprehensive technical 
                assistance and oversight to support eligible 
                partnerships; and
                    (C) evaluating and reporting on the performance and 
                impact of programs funded under this section.
            (2) State board or local board funds.--From amounts made 
        available under subsection (a), the Secretary shall reserve not 
        less than 5 percent to provide direct assistance to State 
        boards or local boards to support the creation or expansion of 
        industry or sector partnerships in local areas with high 
        unemployment rates or high percentages of individuals with low 
        incomes or individuals with barriers to employment, as compared 
        to State or national averages for such rates or percentages.
    (e) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts made available to carry out 
this section shall be used to supplement and not supplant other 
Federal, State, and local public funds expended to support activities 
described in this section.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible partnership.--The term ``eligible 
        partnership'' means--
                    (A) an industry or sector partnership, which shall 
                include multiple representatives described in each of 
                clauses (i) through (iii) of paragraph (26)(A) of 
                section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
                Act (29 U.S.C. 3102); or
                    (B) a partnership of multiple entities described in 
                section 3(26) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 3102(26)), and a 
                State board or local board, that is in the process of 
                establishing an industry or sector partnership.
            (2) Perkins cte definitions.--The terms ``career guidance 
        and academic counseling'' and ``evidence-based'' have the 
        meanings given the terms in section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins 
        Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2302).
            (3) Registered apprenticeship program.--The term 
        ``registered apprenticeship program'' means an apprenticeship 
        registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as 
        the ``National Apprenticeship Act''; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 
        29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Labor.
            (5) Wioa definitions.--The terms ``career pathway'', ``in-
        demand industry sector or occupation'', ``individual with a 
        barrier to employment'', ``industry or sector partnership'', 
        ``local area'', ``local board'', and ``State board'' have the 
        meanings given the terms in section 3 of the Workforce 
        Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).

SEC. 22009. JOB CORPS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,500,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2026, except that no amounts 
may be expended after September 30, 2031, for the Job Corps program 
authorized under section 143 of the Workforce Innovation and 
Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3193), including improving and expanding 
access to allowances and supports described in section 150 of such Act 
(29 U.S.C. 3200), except that for the purposes of this section, 
outlying areas as defined in section 3 of such Act (29 U.S.C. 3102) 
shall be considered eligible to receive funds under this section. Of 
such funds, no less than $750,000,000 shall be reserved for 
construction, rehabilitation and acquisition of Job Corps Centers.

SEC. 22010. NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $450,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2026, except that no amounts 
may be expended after September 30, 2031, for the Native American 
programs authorized under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.

SEC. 22011. MIGRANT AND SEASONAL FARMWORKER PROGRAMS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $450,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2026, except that no amounts 
may be expended after September 30, 2031, for the migrant and seasonal 
farmworker programs authorized under Workforce Innovation and 
Opportunity Act, except that, for purposes of providing services under 
those programs to low-income individuals under this section, section 
3(36)(A)(ii)(I) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 3102(36)(A)(ii)(I)) shall be 
applied by substituting ``150 percent of the poverty line'' for ``the 
poverty line''.

SEC. 22012. YOUTHBUILD PROGRAM.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $500,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2026, except that no amounts 
may be expended after September 30, 2031, for the YouthBuild program 
authorized under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
U.S.C. 3226), including for the purposes of improving and expanding 
access to services, stipends, wages, and benefits described in 
subsections (c)(2)(A)(vii) and (c)(2)(F) of section 171 of such Act.

SEC. 22013. SENIOR COMMUNITY SERVICE EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2026, except that no amounts 
may be expended after September 30, 2031, for the Senior Community 
Service Employment program authorized under title V of the Older 
Americans Act (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.).

SEC. 22014. PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $720,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2028, except that no amounts may 
be expended after September 30, 2031, for program administration within 
the Department of Labor for salaries and expenses necessary to 
implement this part, parts 3 and 4, and section 22402 of part 5 of this 
subtitle, including for management, legal, or other support necessary 
to implement such parts or section.
