---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Part 1 - Lowering Prices Through Fair Drug Price Negotiation

SEC. 139001. PROVIDING FOR LOWER PRICES FOR CERTAIN HIGH-PRICED SINGLE 
              SOURCE DRUGS.

    (a) Program To Lower Prices for Certain High-Priced Single Source 
Drugs.--Title XI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new part:

 ``PART E--FAIR PRICE NEGOTIATION PROGRAM TO LOWER PRICES FOR CERTAIN 
                    HIGH-PRICED SINGLE SOURCE DRUGS

``SEC. 1191. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish a Fair Price 
Negotiation Program (in this part referred to as the `program'). Under 
the program, with respect to each price applicability period, the 
Secretary shall--
            ``(1) publish a list of selected drugs in accordance with 
        section 1192;
            ``(2) enter into agreements with manufacturers of selected 
        drugs with respect to such period, in accordance with section 
        1193;
            ``(3) negotiate and, if applicable, renegotiate maximum 
        fair prices for such selected drugs, in accordance with section 
        1194; and
            ``(4) carry out the administrative duties described in 
        section 1196.
    ``(b) Definitions Relating to Timing.--For purposes of this part:
            ``(1) Initial price applicability year.--The term `initial 
        price applicability year' means a plan year (beginning with 
        plan year 2025) or, if agreed to in an agreement under section 
        1193 by the Secretary and manufacturer involved, a period of 
        more than one plan year (beginning on or after January 1, 
        2025).
            ``(2) Price applicability period.--The term `price 
        applicability period' means, with respect to a drug, the period 
        beginning with the initial price applicability year with 
        respect to which such drug is a selected drug and ending with 
        the last plan year during which the drug is a selected drug.
            ``(3) Selected drug publication date.--The term `selected 
        drug publication date' means, with respect to each initial 
        price applicability year, April 15 of the plan year that begins 
        2 years prior to such year.
            ``(4) Voluntary negotiation period.--The term `voluntary 
        negotiation period' means, with respect to an initial price 
        applicability year with respect to a selected drug, the 
        period--
                    ``(A) beginning on the sooner of--
                            ``(i) the date on which the manufacturer of 
                        the drug and the Secretary enter into an 
                        agreement under section 1193 with respect to 
                        such drug; or
                            ``(ii) June 15 following the selected drug 
                        publication date with respect to such selected 
                        drug; and
                    ``(B) ending on March 31 of the year that begins 
                one year prior to the initial price applicability year.
    ``(c) Other Definitions.--For purposes of this part:
            ``(1) Fair price eligible individual.--The term `fair price 
        eligible individual' means, with respect to a selected drug--
                    ``(A) in the case such drug is furnished or 
                dispensed to the individual at a pharmacy or by a mail 
                order service--
                            ``(i) an individual who is enrolled under a 
                        prescription drug plan under part D of title 
                        XVIII or an MA-PD plan under part C of such 
                        title if coverage is provided under such plan 
                        for such selected drug; and
                            ``(ii) an individual who is enrolled under 
                        a group health plan or health insurance 
                        coverage offered in the group or individual 
                        market (as such terms are defined in section 
                        2791 of the Public Health Service Act) with 
                        respect to which there is in effect an 
                        agreement with the Secretary under section 1197 
                        with respect to such selected drug as so 
                        furnished or dispensed; and
                    ``(B) in the case such drug is furnished or 
                administered to the individual by a hospital, 
                physician, or other provider of services or supplier--
                            ``(i) an individual who is entitled to 
                        benefits under part A of title XVIII or 
                        enrolled under part B of such title if such 
                        selected drug is covered under the respective 
                        part; and
                            ``(ii) an individual who is enrolled under 
                        a group health plan or health insurance 
                        coverage offered in the group or individual 
                        market (as such terms are defined in section 
                        2791 of the Public Health Service Act) with 
                        respect to which there is in effect an 
                        agreement with the Secretary under section 1197 
                        with respect to such selected drug as so 
                        furnished or administered.
            ``(2) Maximum fair price.--The term `maximum fair price' 
        means, with respect to a plan year during a price applicability 
        period and with respect to a selected drug (as defined in 
        section 1192(c)) with respect to such period, the price 
        published pursuant to section 1195 in the Federal Register for 
        such drug and year.
            ``(3) Average international market price defined.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The terms `average international 
                market price' and `AIM price' mean, with respect to a 
                drug, the average price (which shall be the net average 
                price, if practicable, and volume-weighted, if 
                practicable) for a unit (as defined in paragraph (4)) 
                of the drug for sales of such drug (calculated across 
                different dosage forms and strengths of the drug and 
                not based on the specific formulation or package size 
                or package type), as computed (as of the date of 
                publication of such drug as a selected drug under 
                section 1192(a)) in all countries described in clause 
                (ii) of subparagraph (B) that are applicable countries 
                (as described in clause (i) of such subparagraph) with 
                respect to such drug.
                    ``(B) Applicable countries.--
                            ``(i) In general.--For purposes of 
                        subparagraph (A), a country described in clause 
                        (ii) is an applicable country described in this 
                        clause with respect to a drug if there is 
                        available an average price for any unit for the 
                        drug for sales of such drug in such country.
                            ``(ii) Countries described.--For purposes 
                        of this paragraph, the following are countries 
                        described in this clause:
                                    ``(I) Australia.
                                    ``(II) Canada.
                                    ``(III) France.
                                    ``(IV) Germany.
                                    ``(V) Japan.
                                    ``(VI) The United Kingdom.
            ``(4) Unit.--The term `unit' means, with respect to a drug, 
        the lowest identifiable quantity (such as a capsule or tablet, 
        milligram of molecules, or grams) of the drug that is 
        dispensed.

``SEC. 1192. SELECTION OF NEGOTIATION-ELIGIBLE DRUGS AS SELECTED DRUGS.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than the selected drug publication 
date with respect to an initial price applicability year, subject to 
subsection (h), the Secretary shall select and publish in the Federal 
Register a list of--
            ``(1)(A) with respect to an initial price applicability 
        year during 2025, at least 25 negotiation-eligible drugs 
        described in subparagraphs (A) and (B), but not subparagraph 
        (C), of subsection (d)(1) (or, with respect to an initial price 
        applicability year during such period beginning after 2025, the 
        maximum number (if such number is less than 25) of such 
        negotiation-eligible drugs for the year) with respect to such 
        year; and
            ``(B) with respect to an initial price applicability year 
        during 2026 or a subsequent year, at least 50 negotiation-
        eligible drugs described in subparagraphs (A) and (B), but not 
        subparagraph (C), of subsection (d)(1) (or, with respect to an 
        initial price applicability year during such period, the 
        maximum number (if such number is less than 50) of such 
        negotiation-eligible drugs for the year) with respect to such 
        year;
            ``(2) all negotiation-eligible drugs described in 
        subparagraph (C) of such subsection with respect to such year; 
        and
            ``(3) all new-entrant negotiation-eligible drugs (as 
        defined in subsection (g)(1)) with respect to such year.
Each drug published on the list pursuant to the previous sentence shall 
be subject to the negotiation process under section 1194 for the 
voluntary negotiation period with respect to such initial price 
applicability year (and the renegotiation process under such section as 
applicable for any subsequent year during the applicable price 
applicability period). In applying this subsection, any negotiation-
eligible drug that is selected under this subsection for an initial 
price applicability year shall not count toward the required minimum 
amount of drugs to be selected under paragraph (1) for any subsequent 
year, including such a drug so selected that is subject to 
renegotiation under section 1194.
    ``(b) Selection of Drugs.--In carrying out subsection (a)(1) the 
Secretary shall select for inclusion on the published list described in 
subsection (a) with respect to a price applicability period, the 
negotiation-eligible drugs that the Secretary projects will result in 
the greatest savings to the Federal Government or fair price eligible 
individuals during the price applicability period. In making this 
projection of savings for drugs for which there is an AIM price for a 
price applicability period, the savings shall be projected across 
different dosage forms and strengths of the drugs and not based on the 
specific formulation or package size or package type of the drugs, 
taking into consideration both the volume of drugs for which payment is 
made, to the extent such data is available, and the amount by which the 
net price for the drugs exceeds the AIM price for the drugs.
    ``(c) Selected Drug.--For purposes of this part, each drug included 
on the list published under subsection (a) with respect to an initial 
price applicability year shall be referred to as a `selected drug' with 
respect to such year and each subsequent plan year beginning before the 
first plan year beginning after the date on which the Secretary 
determines two or more drug products--
            ``(1) are approved or licensed (as applicable)--
                    ``(A) under section 505(j) of the Federal Food, 
                Drug, and Cosmetic Act using such drug as the listed 
                drug; or
                    ``(B) under section 351(k) of the Public Health 
                Service Act using such drug as the reference product; 
                and
            ``(2) continue to be marketed.
    ``(d) Negotiation-Eligible Drug.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of this part, the term 
        `negotiation-eligible drug' means, with respect to the selected 
        drug publication date with respect to an initial price 
        applicability year, a qualifying single source drug, as defined 
        in subsection (e), that meets any of the following criteria:
                    ``(A) Covered part d drugs.--The drug is among the 
                125 covered part D drugs (as defined in section 1860D-
                2(e)) for which there was an estimated greatest net 
                spending under parts C and D of title XVIII, as 
                determined by the Secretary, during the most recent 
                plan year prior to such drug publication date for which 
                data are available.
                    ``(B) Other drugs.--The drug is among the 125 drugs 
                for which there was an estimated greatest net spending 
                in the United States (including the 50 States, the 
                District of Columbia, and the territories of the United 
                States), as determined by the Secretary, during the 
                most recent plan year prior to such drug publication 
                date for which data are available.
                    ``(C) Insulin.--The drug is a qualifying single 
                source drug described in subsection (e)(3).
            ``(2) Clarification.--In determining whether a qualifying 
        single source drug satisfies any of the criteria described in 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, 
        use data that is aggregated across dosage forms and strengths 
        of the drug and not based on the specific formulation or 
        package size or package type of the drug.
            ``(3) Publication.--Not later than the selected drug 
        publication date with respect to an initial price applicability 
        year, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a 
        list of negotiation-eligible drugs with respect to such 
        selected drug publication date.
    ``(e) Qualifying Single Source Drug.--For purposes of this part, 
the term `qualifying single source drug' means any of the following:
            ``(1) Drug products.--A drug that--
                    ``(A) is approved under section 505(c) of the 
                Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and continues to 
                be marketed pursuant to such approval; and
                    ``(B) is not the listed drug for any drug that is 
                approved and continues to be marketed under section 
                505(j) of such Act.
            ``(2) Biological products.--A biological product that--
                    ``(A) is licensed under section 351(a) of the 
                Public Health Service Act, including any product that 
                has been deemed to be licensed under section 351 of 
                such Act pursuant to section 7002(e)(4) of the 
                Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, 
                and continues to be marketed under section 351 of such 
                Act; and
                    ``(B) is not the reference product for any 
                biological product that is licensed and continues to be 
                marketed under section 351(k) of such Act.
            ``(3) Insulin product.--Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and 
        (2), any insulin product that is approved under subsection (c) 
        or (j) of section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic 
        Act or licensed under subsection (a) or (k) of section 351 of 
        the Public Health Service Act and continues to be marketed 
        under such section 505 or 351, including any insulin product 
        that has been deemed to be licensed under section 351(a) of the 
        Public Health Service Act pursuant to section 7002(e)(4) of the 
        Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 and 
        continues to be marketed pursuant to such licensure.
For purposes of applying paragraphs (1) and (2), a drug or biological 
product that is marketed by the same sponsor or manufacturer (or an 
affiliate thereof or a cross-licensed producer or distributor) as the 
listed drug or reference product described in such respective paragraph 
shall not be taken into consideration.
    ``(f) Information on International Drug Prices.--For purposes of 
determining which negotiation-eligible drugs to select under subsection 
(a) and, in the case of such drugs that are selected drugs, to 
determine the maximum fair price for such a drug and whether such 
maximum fair price should be renegotiated under section 1194, the 
Secretary shall use data relating to the AIM price with respect to such 
drug as available or provided to the Secretary and shall on an ongoing 
basis request from manufacturers of selected drugs information on the 
AIM price of such a drug.
    ``(g) New-Entrant Negotiation-Eligible Drugs.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of this part, the term 
        `new-entrant negotiation-eligible drug' means, with respect to 
        the selected drug publication date with respect to an initial 
        price applicability year, a qualifying single source drug--
                    ``(A) that is first approved or licensed, as 
                described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection 
                (e), as applicable, during the year preceding such 
                selected drug publication date; and
                    ``(B) that the Secretary determines under paragraph 
                (2) is likely to be included as a negotiation-eligible 
                drug with respect to the subsequent selected drug 
                publication date.
            ``(2) Determination.--In the case of a qualifying single 
        source drug that meets the criteria described in subparagraph 
        (A) of paragraph (1), with respect to an initial price 
        applicability year, if the wholesale acquisition cost at which 
        such drug is first marketed in the United States is equal to or 
        greater than the median household income (as determined 
        according to the most recent data collected by the United 
        States Census Bureau), the Secretary shall determine before the 
        selected drug publication date with respect to the initial 
        price applicability year, if the drug is likely to be included 
        as a negotiation-eligible drug with respect to the subsequent 
        selected drug publication date, based on the projected spending 
        under title XVIII or in the United States on such drug. For 
        purposes of this paragraph the term `United States' includes 
        the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the territories of 
        the United States.
    ``(h) Conflict of Interest.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case the Inspector General of the 
        Department of Health and Human Services determines the 
        Secretary has a conflict, with respect to a matter described in 
        paragraph (2), the individual described in paragraph (3) shall 
        carry out the duties of the Secretary under this part, with 
        respect to a negotiation-eligible drug, that would otherwise be 
        such a conflict.
            ``(2) Matter described.--A matter described in this 
        paragraph is--
                    ``(A) a financial interest (as described in section 
                2635.402 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, as in 
                effect on the date of the enactment of this section, 
                (except for an interest described in subsection 
                (b)(2)(iv) of such section)) on the date of the 
                selected drug publication date, with respect the price 
                applicability year (as applicable);
                    ``(B) a personal or business relationship (as 
                described in section 2635.502 of such title) on the 
                date of the selected drug publication date, with 
                respect the price applicability year;
                    ``(C) employment by a manufacturer of a 
                negotiation-eligible drug during the preceding 10-year 
                period beginning on the date of the selected drug 
                publication date, with respect to each price 
                applicability year; and
                    ``(D) any other matter the General Counsel 
                determines appropriate.
            ``(3) Individual described.--An individual described in 
        this paragraph is--
                    ``(A) the highest-ranking officer or employee of 
                the Department of Health and Human Services (as 
                determined by the organizational chart of the 
                Department) that does not have a conflict under this 
                subsection; and
                    ``(B) is nominated by the President and confirmed 
                by the Senate with respect to the position.

``SEC. 1193. MANUFACTURER AGREEMENTS.

    ``(a) In General.--For purposes of section 1191(a)(2), the 
Secretary shall enter into agreements with manufacturers of selected 
drugs with respect to a price applicability period, by not later than 
June 15 following the selected drug publication date with respect to 
such selected drug, under which--
            ``(1) during the voluntary negotiation period for the 
        initial price applicability year for the selected drug, the 
        Secretary and manufacturer, in accordance with section 1194, 
        negotiate to determine (and, by not later than the last date of 
        such period and in accordance with subsection (c), agree to) a 
        maximum fair price for such selected drug of the manufacturer 
        in order to provide access to such price--
                    ``(A) to fair price eligible individuals who with 
                respect to such drug are described in subparagraph (A) 
                of section 1191(c)(1) and are furnished or dispensed 
                such drug during, subject to subparagraph (2), the 
                price applicability period; and
                    ``(B) to hospitals, physicians, and other providers 
                of services and suppliers with respect to fair price 
                eligible individuals who with respect to such drug are 
                described in subparagraph (B) of such section and are 
                furnished or administered such drug during, subject to 
                subparagraph (2), the price applicability period;
            ``(2) the Secretary and the manufacturer shall, in 
        accordance with a process and during a period specified by the 
        Secretary pursuant to rulemaking, renegotiate (and, by not 
        later than the last date of such period and in accordance with 
        subsection (c), agree to) the maximum fair price for such drug 
        if the Secretary determines that there is a material change in 
        any of the factors described in section 1194(d) relating to the 
        drug, including changes in the AIM price for such drug, in 
        order to provide access to such maximum fair price (as so 
        renegotiated)--
                    ``(A) to fair price eligible individuals who with 
                respect to such drug are described in subparagraph (A) 
                of section 1191(c)(1) and are furnished or dispensed 
                such drug during any year during the price 
                applicability period (beginning after such 
                renegotiation) with respect to such selected drug; and
                    ``(B) to hospitals, physicians, and other providers 
                of services and suppliers with respect to fair price 
                eligible individuals who with respect to such drug are 
                described in subparagraph (B) of such section and are 
                furnished or administered such drug during any year 
                described in subparagraph (A);
            ``(3) the maximum fair price (including as renegotiated 
        pursuant to paragraph (2)), with respect to such a selected 
        drug, shall be provided to fair price eligible individuals, who 
        with respect to such drug are described in subparagraph (A) of 
        section 1191(c)(1), at the pharmacy or by a mail order service 
        at the point-of-sale of such drug;
            ``(4) the manufacturer, subject to subsection (d), submits 
        to the Secretary, in a form and manner specified by the 
        Secretary--
                    ``(A) for the voluntary negotiation period for the 
                price applicability period (and, if applicable, before 
                any period of renegotiation specified pursuant to 
                paragraph (2)) with respect to such drug all 
                information that the Secretary requires to carry out 
                the negotiation (or renegotiation process) under this 
                part, including information described in section 
                1192(f) and section 1194(d)(1); and
                    ``(B) on an ongoing basis, information on changes 
                in prices for such drug that would affect the AIM price 
                for such drug or otherwise provide a basis for 
                renegotiation of the maximum fair price for such drug 
                pursuant to paragraph (2);
            ``(5) the manufacturer agrees that in the case the selected 
        drug of a manufacturer is a drug described in subsection (c), 
        the manufacturer will, in accordance with such subsection, make 
        any payment required under such subsection with respect to such 
        drug; and
            ``(6) the manufacturer complies with requirements imposed 
        by the Secretary for purposes of administering the program, 
        including with respect to the duties described in section 1196.
    ``(b) Agreement in Effect Until Drug Is No Longer a Selected 
Drug.--An agreement entered into under this section shall be effective, 
with respect to a drug, until such drug is no longer considered a 
selected drug under section 1192(c).
    ``(c) Special Rule for Certain Selected Drugs Without AIM Price.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of a selected drug for which 
        there is no AIM price available with respect to the initial 
        price applicability year for such drug and for which an AIM 
        price becomes available beginning with respect to a subsequent 
        plan year during the price applicability period for such drug, 
        if the Secretary determines that the amount described in 
        paragraph (2)(A) for a unit of such drug is greater than the 
        amount described in paragraph (2)(B) for a unit of such drug, 
        then by not later than one year after the date of such 
        determination, the manufacturer of such selected drug shall pay 
        to the Treasury an amount equal to the product of--
                    ``(A) the difference between such amount described 
                in paragraph (2)(A) for a unit of such drug and such 
                amount described in paragraph (2)(B) for a unit of such 
                drug; and
                    ``(B) the number of units of such drug sold in the 
                United States, including the 50 States, the District of 
                Columbia, and the territories of the United States, 
                during the period described in paragraph (2)(B).
            ``(2) Amounts described.--
                    ``(A) Weighted average price before aim price 
                available.--For purposes of paragraph (1), the amount 
                described in this subparagraph for a selected drug 
                described in such paragraph, is the amount equal to the 
                weighted average manufacturer price (as defined in 
                section 1927(k)(1)) for such dosage strength and form 
                for the drug during the period beginning with the first 
                plan year for which the drug is included on the list of 
                negotiation-eligible drugs published under section 
                1192(d) and ending with the last plan year during the 
                price applicability period for such drug with respect 
                to which there is no AIM price available for such drug.
                    ``(B) Amount multiplier after aim price 
                available.--For purposes of paragraph (1), the amount 
                described in this subparagraph for a selected drug 
                described in such paragraph, is the amount equal to 200 
                percent of the AIM price for such drug with respect to 
                the first plan year during the price applicability 
                period for such drug with respect to which there is an 
                AIM price available for such drug.
    ``(d) Confidentiality of Information.--Information submitted to the 
Secretary under this part by a manufacturer of a selected drug that is 
proprietary information of such manufacturer (as determined by the 
Secretary) may be used only by the Secretary or disclosed to and used 
by the Comptroller General of the United States or the Medicare Payment 
Advisory Commission for purposes of carrying out this part.
    ``(e) Regulations.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall, pursuant to 
        rulemaking, specify, in accordance with paragraph (2), the 
        information that must be submitted under subsection (a)(4).
            ``(2) Information specified.--Information described in 
        paragraph (1), with respect to a selected drug, shall include 
        information on sales of the drug (by the manufacturer of the 
        drug or by another entity under license or other agreement with 
        the manufacturer, with respect to the sales of such drug, 
        regardless of the name under which the drug is sold) in any 
        foreign country that is part of the AIM price. The Secretary 
        shall verify, to the extent practicable, such sales from 
        appropriate officials of the government of the foreign country 
        involved.
    ``(f) Compliance With Requirements for Administration of Program.--
Each manufacturer with an agreement in effect under this section shall 
comply with requirements imposed by the Secretary or a third party with 
a contract under section 1196(c)(1), as applicable, for purposes of 
administering the program.

``SEC. 1194. NEGOTIATION AND RENEGOTIATION PROCESS.

    ``(a) In General.--For purposes of this part, under an agreement 
under section 1193 between the Secretary and a manufacturer of a 
selected drug, with respect to the period for which such agreement is 
in effect and in accordance with subsections (b) and (c), the Secretary 
and the manufacturer--
            ``(1) shall during the voluntary negotiation period with 
        respect to the initial price applicability year for such drug, 
        in accordance with this section, negotiate a maximum fair price 
        for such drug for the purpose described in section 1193(a)(1); 
        and
            ``(2) as applicable pursuant to section 1193(a)(2) and in 
        accordance with the process specified pursuant to such section, 
        renegotiate such maximum fair price for such drug for the 
        purpose described in such section.
    ``(b) Negotiating Methodology and Objective.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall develop and use a 
        consistent methodology for negotiations under subsection (a) 
        that, in accordance with paragraph (2) and subject to paragraph 
        (3), achieves the lowest maximum fair price for each selected 
        drug while appropriately rewarding innovation.
            ``(2) Prioritizing factors.--In considering the factors 
        described in subsection (d) in negotiating (and, as applicable, 
        renegotiating) the maximum fair price for a selected drug, the 
        Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, consider all of the 
        available factors listed but shall prioritize the following 
        factors:
                    ``(A) Research and development costs.--The factor 
                described in paragraph (1)(A) of subsection (d).
                    ``(B) Market data.--The factor described in 
                paragraph (1)(B) of such subsection.
                    ``(C) Unit costs of production and distribution.--
                The factor described in paragraph (1)(C) of such 
                subsection.
                    ``(D) Comparison to existing therapeutic 
                alternatives.--The factor described in paragraph (2)(A) 
                of such subsection.
            ``(3) Requirement.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In negotiating the maximum fair 
                price of a selected drug, with respect to an initial 
                price applicability year for the selected drug, and, as 
                applicable, in renegotiating the maximum fair price for 
                such drug, with respect to a subsequent year during the 
                price applicability period for such drug, in the case 
                that the manufacturer of the selected drug offers under 
                the negotiation or renegotiation, as applicable, a 
                price for such drug that is not more than the target 
                price described in subparagraph (B) for such drug for 
                the respective year, the Secretary shall agree under 
                such negotiation or renegotiation, respectively, to 
                such offered price as the maximum fair price.
                    ``(B) Target price.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), 
                        the target price described in this subparagraph 
                        for a selected drug with respect to a year, is 
                        the average price (which shall be the net 
                        average price, if practicable, and volume-
                        weighted, if practicable) for a unit of such 
                        drug for sales of such drug, as computed 
                        (across different dosage forms and strengths of 
                        the drug and not based on the specific 
                        formulation or package size or package type of 
                        the drug) in the applicable country described 
                        in section 1191(c)(3)(B) with respect to such 
                        drug that, with respect to such year, has the 
                        lowest average price for such drug as compared 
                        to the average prices (as so computed) of such 
                        drug with respect to such year in the other 
                        applicable countries described in such section 
                        with respect to such drug.
                            ``(ii) Selected drugs without aim price.--
                        In applying this paragraph in the case of 
                        negotiating the maximum fair price of a 
                        selected drug for which there is no AIM price 
                        available with respect to the initial price 
                        applicability year for such drug, or, as 
                        applicable, renegotiating the maximum fair 
                        price for such drug with respect to a 
                        subsequent year during the price applicability 
                        period for such drug before the first plan year 
                        for which there is an AIM price available for 
                        such drug, the target price described in this 
                        subparagraph for such drug and respective year 
                        is the amount that is 80 percent of the average 
                        manufacturer price (as defined in section 
                        1927(k)(1)) for such drug and year.
    ``(c) Limitation.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the maximum 
        fair price negotiated (including as renegotiated) under this 
        section for a selected drug, with respect to each plan year 
        during a price applicability period for such drug, shall not 
        exceed 120 percent of the AIM price applicable to such drug 
        with respect to such year.
            ``(2) Selected drugs without aim price.--In the case of a 
        selected drug for which there is no AIM price available with 
        respect to the initial price applicability year for such drug, 
        for each plan year during the price applicability period before 
        the first plan year for which there is an AIM price available 
        for such drug, the maximum fair price negotiated (including as 
        renegotiated) under this section for the selected drug shall 
        not exceed the amount equal to 85 percent of the average 
        manufacturer price for the drug with respect to such year.
    ``(d) Considerations.--For purposes of negotiating and, as 
applicable, renegotiating (including for purposes of determining 
whether to renegotiate) the maximum fair price of a selected drug under 
this part with the manufacturer of the drug, the Secretary, consistent 
with subsection (b)(2), shall take into consideration the factors 
described in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (5), and may take into 
consideration the factor described in paragraph (4):
            ``(1) Manufacturer-specific information.--The following 
        information, including as submitted by the manufacturer:
                    ``(A) Research and development costs of the 
                manufacturer for the drug and the extent to which the 
                manufacturer has recouped research and development 
                costs.
                    ``(B) Market data for the drug, including the 
                distribution of sales across different programs and 
                purchasers and projected future revenues for the drug.
                    ``(C) Unit costs of production and distribution of 
                the drug.
                    ``(D) Prior Federal financial support for novel 
                therapeutic discovery and development with respect to 
                the drug.
                    ``(E) Data on patents and on existing and pending 
                exclusivity for the drug.
                    ``(F) National sales data for the drug.
                    ``(G) Information on clinical trials for the drug 
                in the United States or in applicable countries 
                described in section 1191(c)(3)(B).
            ``(2) Information on alternative products.--The following 
        information:
                    ``(A) The extent to which the drug represents a 
                therapeutic advance as compared to existing therapeutic 
                alternatives and, to the extent such information is 
                available, the costs of such existing therapeutic 
                alternatives.
                    ``(B) Information on approval by the Food and Drug 
                Administration of alternative drug products.
                    ``(C) Information on comparative effectiveness 
                analysis for such products, taking into consideration 
                the effects of such products on specific populations, 
                such as individuals with disabilities, the elderly, 
                terminally ill, children, and other patient 
                populations.
        In considering information described in subparagraph (C), the 
        Secretary shall not use evidence or findings from comparative 
        clinical effectiveness research in a manner that treats 
        extending the life of an elderly, disabled, or terminally ill 
        individual as of lower value than extending the life of an 
        individual who is younger, nondisabled, or not terminally ill. 
        Nothing in the previous sentence shall affect the application 
        or consideration of an AIM price for a selected drug.
            ``(3) Foreign sales information.--To the extent available 
        on a timely basis, including as provided by a manufacturer of 
        the selected drug or otherwise, information on sales of the 
        selected drug in each of the countries described in section 
        1191(c)(3)(B).
            ``(4) VA drug pricing information.--Information disclosed 
        to the Secretary pursuant to subsection (f).
            ``(5) Additional information.--Information submitted to the 
        Secretary, in accordance with a process specified by the 
        Secretary, by other parties that are affected by the 
        establishment of a maximum fair price for the selected drug.
    ``(e) Request for Information.--For purposes of negotiating and, as 
applicable, renegotiating (including for purposes of determining 
whether to renegotiate) the maximum fair price of a selected drug under 
this part with the manufacturer of the drug, with respect to a price 
applicability period, and other relevant data for purposes of this 
section--
            ``(1) the Secretary shall, not later than the selected drug 
        publication date with respect to the initial price 
        applicability year of such period, request drug pricing 
        information from the manufacturer of such selected drug, 
        including information described in subsection (d)(1); and
            ``(2) by not later than October 1 following the selected 
        drug publication date, the manufacturer of such selected drug 
        shall submit to the Secretary such requested information in 
        such form and manner as the Secretary may require.
The Secretary shall request, from the manufacturer or others, such 
additional information as may be needed to carry out the negotiation 
and renegotiation process under this section.
    ``(f) Disclosure of Information.--For purposes of this part, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs may disclose to the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services the price of any negotiation-eligible drug that is 
purchased pursuant to section 8126 of title 38, United States Code.

``SEC. 1195. PUBLICATION OF MAXIMUM FAIR PRICES.

    ``(a) In General.--With respect to an initial price applicability 
year and selected drug with respect to such year, not later than April 
1 of the plan year prior to such initial price applicability year, the 
Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register the maximum fair price 
for such drug negotiated under this part with the manufacturer of such 
drug.
    ``(b) Updates.--
            ``(1) Subsequent year maximum fair prices.--For a selected 
        drug, for each plan year subsequent to the initial price 
        applicability year for such drug with respect to which an 
        agreement for such drug is in effect under section 1193, the 
        Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register--
                    ``(A) subject to subparagraph (B), the amount equal 
                to the maximum fair price published for such drug for 
                the previous year, increased by the annual percentage 
                increase in the consumer price index for all urban 
                consumers (all items; U.S. city average) as of 
                September of such previous year; or
                    ``(B) in the case the maximum fair price for such 
                drug was renegotiated, for the first year for which 
                such price as so renegotiated applies, such 
                renegotiated maximum fair price.
            ``(2) Prices negotiated after deadline.--In the case of a 
        selected drug with respect to an initial price applicability 
        year for which the maximum fair price is determined under this 
        part after the date of publication under this section, the 
        Secretary shall publish such maximum fair price in the Federal 
        Register by not later than 30 days after the date such maximum 
        price is so determined.

``SEC. 1196. ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES; COORDINATION PROVISIONS.

    ``(a) Administrative Duties.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of section 1191, the 
        administrative duties described in this section are the 
        following:
                    ``(A) The establishment of procedures (including 
                through agreements with manufacturers under this part, 
                contracts with prescription drug plans under part D of 
                title XVIII and MA-PD plans under part C of such title, 
                and agreements under section 1197 with group health 
                plans and health insurance issuers of health insurance 
                coverage offered in the individual or group market) 
                under which the maximum fair price for a selected drug 
                is provided to fair price eligible individuals, who 
                with respect to such drug are described in subparagraph 
                (A) of section 1191(c)(1), at pharmacies or by mail 
                order service at the point-of-sale of the drug for the 
                applicable price period for such drug and providing 
                that such maximum fair price is used for determining 
                cost-sharing under such plans or coverage for the 
                selected drug.
                    ``(B) The establishment of procedures (including 
                through agreements with manufacturers under this part 
                and contracts with hospitals, physicians, and other 
                providers of services and suppliers and agreements 
                under section 1197 with group health plans and health 
                insurance issuers of health insurance coverage offered 
                in the individual or group market) under which, in the 
                case of a selected drug furnished or administered by 
                such a hospital, physician, or other provider of 
                services or supplier to fair price eligible individuals 
                (who with respect to such drug are described in 
                subparagraph (B) of section 1191(c)(1)), the maximum 
                fair price for the selected drug is provided to such 
                hospitals, physicians, and other providers of services 
                and suppliers (as applicable) with respect to such 
                individuals and providing that such maximum fair price 
                is used for determining cost-sharing under the 
                respective part, plan, or coverage for the selected 
                drug.
                    ``(C) The establishment of procedures (including 
                through agreements and contracts described in 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B)) to ensure that, not later 
                than 90 days after the dispensing of a selected drug to 
                a fair price eligible individual by a pharmacy or mail 
                order service, the pharmacy or mail order service is 
                reimbursed for an amount equal to the difference 
                between--
                            ``(i) the lesser of--
                                    ``(I) the wholesale acquisition 
                                cost of the drug;
                                    ``(II) the national average drug 
                                acquisition cost of the drug; and
                                    ``(III) any other similar 
                                determination of pharmacy acquisition 
                                costs of the drug, as determined by the 
                                Secretary; and
                            ``(ii) the maximum fair price for the drug.
                    ``(D) The establishment of procedures to ensure 
                that the maximum fair price for a selected drug is 
                applied before--
                            ``(i) any coverage or financial assistance 
                        under other health benefit plans or programs 
                        that provide coverage or financial assistance 
                        for the purchase or provision of prescription 
                        drug coverage on behalf of fair price eligible 
                        individuals as the Secretary may specify; and
                            ``(ii) any other discounts.
                    ``(E) The establishment of procedures to enter into 
                appropriate agreements and protocols for the ongoing 
                computation of AIM prices for selected drugs, 
                including, to the extent possible, to compute the AIM 
                price for selected drugs and including by providing 
                that the manufacturer of such a selected drug should 
                provide information for such computation not later than 
                3 months after the first date of the voluntary 
                negotiation period for such selected drug.
                    ``(F) The establishment of procedures to compute 
                and apply the maximum fair price across different 
                strengths and dosage forms of a selected drug and not 
                based on the specific formulation or package size or 
                package type of the drug.
                    ``(G) The establishment of procedures to negotiate 
                and apply the maximum fair price in a manner that does 
                not include any dispensing or similar fee.
                    ``(H) The establishment of procedures to carry out 
                the provisions of this part, as applicable, with 
                respect to--
                            ``(i) fair price eligible individuals who 
                        are enrolled under a prescription drug plan 
                        under part D of title XVIII or an MA-PD plan 
                        under part C of such title;
                            ``(ii) fair price eligible individuals who 
                        are enrolled under a group health plan or 
                        health insurance coverage offered by a health 
                        insurance issuer in the individual or group 
                        market with respect to which there is an 
                        agreement in effect under section 1197; and
                            ``(iii) fair price eligible individuals who 
                        are entitled to benefits under part A of title 
                        XVIII or enrolled under part B of such title.
                    ``(I) The establishment of a negotiation process 
                and renegotiation process in accordance with section 
                1194, including a process for acquiring information 
                described in subsection (d) of such section and 
                determining amounts described in subsection (b) of such 
                section.
                    ``(J) The provision of a reasonable dispute 
                resolution mechanism to resolve disagreements between 
                manufacturers, fair price eligible individuals, and the 
                third party with a contract under subsection (c)(1).
            ``(2) Monitoring compliance.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall monitor 
                compliance by a manufacturer with the terms of an 
                agreement under section 1193, including by establishing 
                a mechanism through which violations of such terms may 
                be reported.
                    ``(B) Notification.--If a third party with a 
                contract under subsection (c)(1) determines that the 
                manufacturer is not in compliance with such agreement, 
                the third party shall notify the Secretary of such 
                noncompliance for appropriate enforcement under section 
                4192 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or section 
                1198, as applicable.
    ``(b) Collection of Data.--
            ``(1) From prescription drug plans and ma-pd plans.--The 
        Secretary may collect appropriate data from prescription drug 
        plans under part D of title XVIII and MA-PD plans under part C 
        of such title in a timeframe that allows for maximum fair 
        prices to be provided under this part for selected drugs.
            ``(2) From health plans.--The Secretary may collect 
        appropriate data from group health plans or health insurance 
        issuers offering group or individual health insurance coverage 
        in a timeframe that allows for maximum fair prices to be 
        provided under this part for selected drugs.
            ``(3) Coordination of data collection.--To the extent 
        feasible, as determined by the Secretary, the Secretary shall 
        ensure that data collected pursuant to this subsection is 
        coordinated with, and not duplicative of, other Federal data 
        collection efforts.
    ``(c) Contract With Third Parties.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may enter into a contract 
        with 1 or more third parties to administer the requirements 
        established by the Secretary in order to carry out this part. 
        At a minimum, the contract with a third party under the 
        preceding sentence shall require that the third party--
                    ``(A) receive and transmit information between the 
                Secretary, manufacturers, and other individuals or 
                entities the Secretary determines appropriate;
                    ``(B) receive, distribute, or facilitate the 
                distribution of funds of manufacturers to appropriate 
                individuals or entities in order to meet the 
                obligations of manufacturers under agreements under 
                this part;
                    ``(C) provide adequate and timely information to 
                manufacturers, consistent with the agreement with the 
                manufacturer under this part, as necessary for the 
                manufacturer to fulfill its obligations under this 
                part; and
                    ``(D) permit manufacturers to conduct periodic 
                audits, directly or through contracts, of the data and 
                information used by the third party to determine 
                discounts for applicable drugs of the manufacturer 
                under the program.
            ``(2) Performance requirements.--The Secretary shall 
        establish performance requirements for a third party with a 
        contract under paragraph (1) and safeguards to protect the 
        independence and integrity of the activities carried out by the 
        third party under the program under this part.

``SEC. 1197. VOLUNTARY PARTICIPATION BY OTHER HEALTH PLANS.

    ``(a) Agreement To Participate Under Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), under the 
        program under this part the Secretary shall be treated as 
        having in effect an agreement with a group health plan or 
        health insurance issuer offering group or individual health 
        insurance coverage (as such terms are defined in section 2791 
        of the Public Health Service Act), with respect to a price 
        applicability period and a selected drug with respect to such 
        period--
                    ``(A) with respect to such selected drug furnished 
                or dispensed at a pharmacy or by mail order service if 
                coverage is provided under such plan or coverage during 
                such period for such selected drug as so furnished or 
                dispensed; and
                    ``(B) with respect to such selected drug furnished 
                or administered by a hospital, physician, or other 
                provider of services or supplier if coverage is 
                provided under such plan or coverage during such period 
                for such selected drug as so furnished or administered.
            ``(2) Opting out of agreement.--The Secretary shall not be 
        treated as having in effect an agreement under the program 
        under this part with a group health plan or health insurance 
        issuer offering group or individual health insurance coverage 
        with respect to a price applicability period and a selected 
        drug with respect to such period if such a plan or issuer 
        affirmatively elects, through a process specified by the 
        Secretary, not to participate under the program with respect to 
        such period and drug.
    ``(b) Publication of Election.--With respect to each price 
applicability period and each selected drug with respect to such 
period, the Secretary and the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of 
the Treasury, as applicable, shall make public a list of each group 
health plan and each health insurance issuer offering group or 
individual health insurance coverage, with respect to which coverage is 
provided under such plan or coverage for such drug, that has elected 
under subsection (a) not to participate under the program with respect 
to such period and drug.

``SEC. 1198. CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY.

    ``(a) Violations Relating to Offering of Maximum Fair Price.--Any 
manufacturer of a selected drug that has entered into an agreement 
under section 1193, with respect to a plan year during the price 
applicability period for such drug, that does not provide access to a 
price that is not more than the maximum fair price (or a lesser price) 
for such drug for such year--
            ``(1) to a fair price eligible individual who with respect 
        to such drug is described in subparagraph (A) of section 
        1191(c)(1) and who is furnished or dispensed such drug during 
        such year; or
            ``(2) to a hospital, physician, or other provider of 
        services or supplier with respect to fair price eligible 
        individuals who with respect to such drug is described in 
        subparagraph (B) of such section and is furnished or 
        administered such drug by such hospital, physician, or provider 
        or supplier during such year;
shall be subject to a civil monetary penalty equal to ten times the 
amount equal to the difference between the price for such drug made 
available for such year by such manufacturer with respect to such 
individual or hospital, physician, provider, or supplier and the 
maximum fair price for such drug for such year.
    ``(b) Violations of Certain Terms of Agreement.--Any manufacturer 
of a selected drug that has entered into an agreement under section 
1193, with respect to a plan year during the price applicability period 
for such drug, that is in violation of a requirement imposed pursuant 
to section 1193(a)(6) shall be subject to a civil monetary penalty of 
not more than $1,000,000 for each such violation.
    ``(c) Application.--The provisions of section 1128A (other than 
subsections (a) and (b)) shall apply to a civil monetary penalty under 
this section in the same manner as such provisions apply to a penalty 
or proceeding under section 1128A(a).

``SEC. 1199. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

    ``(a) Paperwork Reduction Act.--Chapter 35 of title 44, United 
States Code, shall not apply to data collected under this part.
    ``(b) Limitation on Judicial Review.--The following shall not be 
subject to judicial review:
            ``(1) The selection of drugs for publication under section 
        1192(a).
            ``(2) The determination of whether a drug is a negotiation-
        eligible drug under section 1192(d).
            ``(3) The determination of the maximum fair price of a 
        selected drug under section 1194.
            ``(4) The determination of units of a drug for purposes of 
        section 1191(c)(3).
    ``(c) Coordination.--In carrying out this part with respect to 
group health plans or health insurance coverage offered in the group 
market that are subject to oversight by the Secretary of Labor or the 
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
shall coordinate with such respective Secretary.
    ``(d) Data Sharing.--The Secretary shall share with the Secretary 
of the Treasury such information as is necessary to determine the tax 
imposed by section 4192 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.''.
    (b) Application of Maximum Fair Prices and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Under medicare.--
                    (A) Application to payments under part b.--Section 
                1847A(b)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
                1395w-3a(b)(1)(B)) is amended by inserting ``or in the 
                case of such a drug or biological that is a selected 
                drug (as defined in section 1192(c)), with respect to a 
                price applicability period (as defined in section 
                1191(b)(2)), 106 percent of the maximum fair price (as 
                defined in section 1191(c)(2)) applicable for such drug 
                and a plan year during such period'' after ``paragraph 
                (4)''.
                    (B) Exception to part d non-interference.--Section 
                1860D-11(i) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
                1395w-111(i)) is amended by inserting ``, except as 
                provided under part E of title XI'' after ``the 
                Secretary''.
                    (C) Application as negotiated price under part d.--
                Section 1860D-2(d)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 
                U.S.C. 1395w-102(d)(1)) is amended--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``, 
                        subject to subparagraph (D),'' after 
                        ``negotiated prices''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
                    ``(D) Application of maximum fair price for 
                selected drugs.--In applying this section, in the case 
                of a covered part D drug that is a selected drug (as 
                defined in section 1192(c)), with respect to a price 
                applicability period (as defined in section 
                1191(b)(2)), the negotiated prices used for payment (as 
                described in this subsection) shall be the maximum fair 
                price (as defined in section 1191(c)(2)) for such drug 
                and for each plan year during such period.''.
                    (D) Information from prescription drug plans and 
                ma-pd plans required.--
                            (i) Prescription drug plans.--Section 
                        1860D-12(b) of the Social Security Act (42 
                        U.S.C. 1395w-112(b)) is amended by adding at 
                        the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(8) Provision of information related to maximum fair 
        prices.--Each contract entered into with a PDP sponsor under 
        this part with respect to a prescription drug plan offered by 
        such sponsor shall require the sponsor to provide information 
        to the Secretary as requested by the Secretary in accordance 
        with section 1196(b).''.
                            (ii) MA-PD plans.--Section 1857(f)(3) of 
                        the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-
                        27(f)(3)) is amended by adding at the end the 
                        following new subparagraph:
                    ``(E) Provision of information related to maximum 
                fair prices.--Section 1860D-12(b)(8).''.
            (2) Under group health plans and health insurance 
        coverage.--
                    (A) PHSA.--Part D of title XXVII of the Public 
                Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-111 et seq.) is 
                amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 2799A-11. FAIR PRICE NEGOTIATION PROGRAM AND APPLICATION OF 
              MAXIMUM FAIR PRICES.

    ``(a) In General.--In the case of a group health plan or health 
insurance issuer offering group or individual health insurance coverage 
that is treated under section 1197 of the Social Security Act as having 
in effect an agreement with the Secretary under the Fair Price 
Negotiation Program under part E of title XI of such Act, with respect 
to a price applicability period (as defined in section 1191(b) of such 
Act) and a selected drug (as defined in section 1192(c) of such Act) 
with respect to such period with respect to which coverage is provided 
under such plan or coverage--
            ``(1) the provisions of such part shall apply--
                    ``(A) if coverage of such selected drug is provided 
                under such plan or coverage if the drug is furnished or 
                dispensed at a pharmacy or by a mail order service, to 
                the plans or coverage offered by such plan or issuer, 
                and to the individuals enrolled under such plans or 
                coverage, during such period, with respect to such 
                selected drug, in the same manner as such provisions 
                apply to prescription drug plans and MA-PD plans, and 
                to individuals enrolled under such prescription drug 
                plans and MA-PD plans during such period; and
                    ``(B) if coverage of such selected drug is provided 
                under such plan or coverage if the drug is furnished or 
                administered by a hospital, physician, or other 
                provider of services or supplier, to the plans or 
                coverage offered by such plan or issuers, to the 
                individuals enrolled under such plans or coverage, and 
                to hospitals, physicians, and other providers of 
                services and suppliers during such period, with respect 
                to such drug in the same manner as such provisions 
                apply to the Secretary, to individuals entitled to 
                benefits under part A of title XVIII or enrolled under 
                part B of such title, and to hospitals, physicians, and 
                other providers and suppliers participating under title 
                XVIII during such period;
            ``(2) the plan or issuer shall apply any cost-sharing 
        responsibilities under such plan or coverage, with respect to 
        such selected drug, by substituting an amount not more than the 
        maximum fair price negotiated under such part E of title XI for 
        such drug in lieu of the drug price upon which the cost-sharing 
        would have otherwise applied, and such cost-sharing 
        responsibilities with respect to such selected drug may not 
        exceed such maximum fair price; and
            ``(3) the Secretary shall apply the provisions of such part 
        E to such plan, issuer, and coverage, such individuals so 
        enrolled in such plans and coverage, and such hospitals, 
        physicians, and other providers and suppliers participating in 
        such plans and coverage.
    ``(b) Notification Regarding Nonparticipation in Fair Price 
Negotiation Program.--A group health plan or a health insurance issuer 
offering group or individual health insurance coverage shall publicly 
disclose in a manner and in accordance with a process specified by the 
Secretary any election made under section 1197 of the Social Security 
Act by the plan or issuer to not participate in the Fair Price 
Negotiation Program under part E of title XI of such Act with respect 
to a selected drug (as defined in section 1192(c) of such Act) for 
which coverage is provided under such plan or coverage before the 
beginning of the plan year for which such election was made.''.
                    (B) ERISA.--
                            (i) In general.--Subpart B of part 7 of 
                        subtitle B of title I of the Employee 
                        Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 
                        U.S.C. 1181 et seq.) is amended by adding at 
                        the end the following new section:

``SEC. 726. FAIR PRICE NEGOTIATION PROGRAM AND APPLICATION OF MAXIMUM 
              FAIR PRICES.

    ``(a) In General.--In the case of a group health plan or health 
insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage that is 
treated under section 1197 of the Social Security Act as having in 
effect an agreement with the Secretary under the Fair Price Negotiation 
Program under part E of title XI of such Act, with respect to a price 
applicability period (as defined in section 1191(b) of such Act) and a 
selected drug (as defined in section 1192(c) of such Act) with respect 
to such period with respect to which coverage is provided under such 
plan or coverage--
            ``(1) the provisions of such part shall apply, as 
        applicable--
                    ``(A) if coverage of such selected drug is provided 
                under such plan or coverage if the drug is furnished or 
                dispensed at a pharmacy or by a mail order service, to 
                the plans or coverage offered by such plan or issuer, 
                and to the individuals enrolled under such plans or 
                coverage, during such period, with respect to such 
                selected drug, in the same manner as such provisions 
                apply to prescription drug plans and MA-PD plans, and 
                to individuals enrolled under such prescription drug 
                plans and MA-PD plans during such period; and
                    ``(B) if coverage of such selected drug is provided 
                under such plan or coverage if the drug is furnished or 
                administered by a hospital, physician, or other 
                provider of services or supplier, to the plans or 
                coverage offered by such plan or issuers, to the 
                individuals enrolled under such plans or coverage, and 
                to hospitals, physicians, and other providers of 
                services and suppliers during such period, with respect 
                to such drug in the same manner as such provisions 
                apply to the Secretary, to individuals entitled to 
                benefits under part A of title XVIII or enrolled under 
                part B of such title, and to hospitals, physicians, and 
                other providers and suppliers participating under title 
                XVIII during such period;
            ``(2) the plan or issuer shall apply any cost-sharing 
        responsibilities under such plan or coverage, with respect to 
        such selected drug, by substituting an amount not more than the 
        maximum fair price negotiated under such part E of title XI for 
        such drug in lieu of the drug price upon which the cost-sharing 
        would have otherwise applied, and such cost-sharing 
        responsibilities with respect to such selected drug may not 
        exceed such maximum fair price; and
            ``(3) the Secretary shall apply the provisions of such part 
        E to such plan, issuer, and coverage, and such individuals so 
        enrolled in such plans.
    ``(b) Notification Regarding Nonparticipation in Fair Price 
Negotiation Program.--A group health plan or a health insurance issuer 
offering group health insurance coverage shall publicly disclose in a 
manner and in accordance with a process specified by the Secretary any 
election made under section 1197 of the Social Security Act by the plan 
or issuer to not participate in the Fair Price Negotiation Program 
under part E of title XI of such Act with respect to a selected drug 
(as defined in section 1192(c) of such Act) for which coverage is 
provided under such plan or coverage before the beginning of the plan 
year for which such election was made.''.
                            (ii) Application to retiree and certain 
                        small group health plans.--Section 732(a) of 
                        the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 
                        1974 (29 U.S.C. 1191a(a)) is amended by 
                        striking ``section 711'' and inserting 
                        ``sections 711 and 726''.
                            (iii) Clerical amendment.--The table of 
                        sections for subpart B of part 7 of subtitle B 
                        of title I of the Employee Retirement Income 
                        Security Act of 1974 is amended by adding at 
                        the end the following:

``Sec. 726. Fair Price Negotiation Program and application of maximum 
                            fair prices.''.
                    (C) IRC.--
                            (i) In general.--Subchapter B of chapter 
                        100 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is 
                        amended by adding at the end the following new 
                        section:

``SEC. 9826. FAIR PRICE NEGOTIATION PROGRAM AND APPLICATION OF MAXIMUM 
              FAIR PRICES.

    ``(a) In General.--In the case of a group health plan that is 
treated under section 1197 of the Social Security Act as having in 
effect an agreement with the Secretary under the Fair Price Negotiation 
Program under part E of title XI of such Act, with respect to a price 
applicability period (as defined in section 1191(b) of such Act) and a 
selected drug (as defined in section 1192(c) of such Act) with respect 
to such period with respect to which coverage is provided under such 
plan--
            ``(1) the provisions of such part shall apply, as 
        applicable--
                    ``(A) if coverage of such selected drug is provided 
                under such plan if the drug is furnished or dispensed 
                at a pharmacy or by a mail order service, to the plan, 
                and to the individuals enrolled under such plan during 
                such period, with respect to such selected drug, in the 
                same manner as such provisions apply to prescription 
                drug plans and MA-PD plans, and to individuals enrolled 
                under such prescription drug plans and MA-PD plans 
                during such period; and
                    ``(B) if coverage of such selected drug is provided 
                under such plan if the drug is furnished or 
                administered by a hospital, physician, or other 
                provider of services or supplier, to the plan, to the 
                individuals enrolled under such plan, and to hospitals, 
                physicians, and other providers of services and 
                suppliers during such period, with respect to such drug 
                in the same manner as such provisions apply to the 
                Secretary, to individuals entitled to benefits under 
                part A of title XVIII or enrolled under part B of such 
                title, and to hospitals, physicians, and other 
                providers and suppliers participating under title XVIII 
                during such period;
            ``(2) the plan shall apply any cost-sharing 
        responsibilities under such plan, with respect to such selected 
        drug, by substituting an amount not more than the maximum fair 
        price negotiated under such part E of title XI for such drug in 
        lieu of the drug price upon which the cost-sharing would have 
        otherwise applied, and such cost-sharing responsibilities with 
        respect to such selected drug may not exceed such maximum fair 
        price; and
            ``(3) the Secretary shall apply the provisions of such part 
        E to such plan and such individuals so enrolled in such plan.
    ``(b) Notification Regarding Nonparticipation in Fair Price 
Negotiation Program.--A group health plan shall publicly disclose in a 
manner and in accordance with a process specified by the Secretary any 
election made under section 1197 of the Social Security Act by the plan 
to not participate in the Fair Price Negotiation Program under part E 
of title XI of such Act with respect to a selected drug (as defined in 
section 1192(c) of such Act) for which coverage is provided under such 
plan before the beginning of the plan year for which such election was 
made.''.
                            (ii) Application to retiree and certain 
                        small group health plans.--Section 9831(a)(2) 
                        of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended 
                        by inserting ``other than with respect to 
                        section 9826,'' before ``any group health 
                        plan''.
                            (iii) Clerical amendment.--The table of 
                        sections for subchapter B of chapter 100 of 
                        such Code is amended by adding at the end the 
                        following new item:

``Sec. 9826. Fair Price Negotiation Program and application of maximum 
                            fair prices.''.
            (3) Fair price negotiation program prices included in best 
        price and amp.--Section 1927 of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1396r-8) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c)(1)(C)(ii)--
                            (i) in subclause (III), by striking at the 
                        end ``; and'';
                            (ii) in subclause (IV), by striking at the 
                        end the period and inserting ``; and''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subclause:
                                    ``(V) in the case of a rebate 
                                period and a covered outpatient drug 
                                that is a selected drug (as defined in 
                                section 1192(c)) during such rebate 
                                period, shall be inclusive of the price 
                                for such drug made available from the 
                                manufacturer during the rebate period 
                                by reason of application of part E of 
                                title XI to any wholesaler, retailer, 
                                provider, health maintenance 
                                organization, nonprofit entity, or 
                                governmental entity within the United 
                                States.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (k)(1)(B), by adding at the end 
                the following new clause:
                            ``(iii) Clarification.--Notwithstanding 
                        clause (i), in the case of a rebate period and 
                        a covered outpatient drug that is a selected 
                        drug (as defined in section 1192(c)) during 
                        such rebate period, any reduction in price paid 
                        during the rebate period to the manufacturer 
                        for the drug by a wholesaler or retail 
                        community pharmacy described in subparagraph 
                        (A) by reason of application of part E of title 
                        XI shall be included in the average 
                        manufacturer price for the covered outpatient 
                        drug.''.
            (4) FEHBP.--Section 8902 of title 5, United States Code, is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(p) A contract may not be made or a plan approved under this 
chapter with any carrier that has affirmatively elected, pursuant to 
section 1197 of the Social Security Act, not to participate in the Fair 
Price Negotiation Program established under section 1191 of such Act 
for any selected drug (as that term is defined in section 1192(c) of 
such Act).''.
            (5) Option of secretary of veterans affairs to purchase 
        covered drugs at maximum fair prices.--Section 8126 of title 
        38, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(2), by inserting ``, subject 
                to subsection (j),'' after ``may not exceed'';
                    (B) in subsection (d), in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by inserting ``, subject to subsection 
                (j)'' after ``for the procurement of the drug''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(j)(1) In the case of a covered drug that is a selected drug, for 
any year during the price applicability period for such drug, if the 
Secretary determines that the maximum fair price of such drug for such 
year is less than the price for such drug otherwise in effect pursuant 
to this section (including after application of any reduction under 
subsection (a)(2) and any discount under subsection (c)), at the option 
of the Secretary, in lieu of the maximum price (determined after 
application of the reduction under subsection (a)(2) and any discount 
under subsection (c), as applicable) that would be permitted to be 
charged during such year for such drug pursuant to this section without 
application of this subsection, the maximum price permitted to be 
charged during such year for such drug pursuant to this section shall 
be such maximum fair price for such drug and year.
    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection:
            ``(A) The term `maximum fair price' means, with respect to 
        a selected drug and year during the price applicability period 
        for such drug, the maximum fair price (as defined in section 
        1191(c)(2) of the Social Security Act) for such drug and year.
            ``(B) The term `negotiation eligible drug' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 1192(d)(1) of the Social Security 
        Act.
            ``(C) The term `price applicability period' has, with 
        respect to a selected drug, the meaning given such term in 
        section 1191(b)(2) of such Act.
            ``(D) The term `selected drug' means, with respect to a 
        year, a drug that is a selected drug under section 1192(c) of 
        such Act for such year.''.

SEC. 139002. SELECTED DRUG MANUFACTURER EXCISE TAX IMPOSED DURING 
              NONCOMPLIANCE PERIODS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter E of chapter 32 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 4192. SELECTED DRUGS DURING NONCOMPLIANCE PERIODS.

    ``(a) In General.--There is hereby imposed on the sale by the 
manufacturer, producer, or importer of any selected drug during a day 
described in subsection (b) a tax in an amount such that the applicable 
percentage is equal to the ratio of--
            ``(1) such tax, divided by
            ``(2) the sum of such tax and the price for which so sold.
    ``(b) Noncompliance Periods.--A day is described in this subsection 
with respect to a selected drug if it is a day during one of the 
following periods:
            ``(1) The period beginning on the June 16th immediately 
        following the selected drug publication date and ending on the 
        first date during which the manufacturer of the drug has in 
        place an agreement described in subsection (a) of section 1193 
        of the Social Security Act with respect to such drug.
            ``(2) The period beginning on the April 1st immediately 
        following the June 16th described in paragraph (1) and ending 
        on the first date during which the manufacturer of the drug has 
        agreed to a maximum fair price under such agreement.
            ``(3) In the case of a selected drug with respect to which 
        the Secretary of Health and Human Services has specified a 
        renegotiation period under such agreement, the period beginning 
        on the first date after the last date of such renegotiation 
        period and ending on the first date during which the 
        manufacturer of the drug has agreed to a renegotiated maximum 
        fair price under such agreement.
            ``(4) With respect to information that is required to be 
        submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services under 
        such agreement, the period beginning on the date on which such 
        Secretary certifies that such information is overdue and ending 
        on the date that such information is so submitted.
            ``(5) In the case of a selected drug with respect to which 
        a payment is due under subsection (c) of such section 1193, the 
        period beginning on the date on which the Secretary of Health 
        and Human Services certifies that such payment is overdue and 
        ending on the date that such payment is made in full.
    ``(c) Applicable Percentage.--For purposes of this section, the 
term `applicable percentage' means--
            ``(1) in the case of sales of a selected drug during the 
        first 90 days described in subsection (b) with respect to such 
        drug, 65 percent,
            ``(2) in the case of sales of such drug during the 91st day 
        through the 180th day described in subsection (b) with respect 
        to such drug, 75 percent,
            ``(3) in the case of sales of such drug during the 181st 
        day through the 270th day described in subsection (b) with 
        respect to such drug, 85 percent, and
            ``(4) in the case of sales of such drug during any 
        subsequent day, 95 percent.
    ``(d) Selected Drug.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `selected drug' means any 
        selected drug (within the meaning of section 1192 of the Social 
        Security Act) which is manufactured or produced in the United 
        States or entered into the United States for consumption, use, 
        or warehousing.
            ``(2) United states.--The term `United States' has the 
        meaning given such term by section 4612(a)(4).
            ``(3) Coordination with rules for possessions of the united 
        states.--Rules similar to the rules of paragraphs (2) and (4) 
        of section 4132(c) shall apply for purposes of this section.
    ``(e) Other Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the terms 
`selected drug publication date' and `maximum fair price' have the 
meaning given such terms in section 1191 of the Social Security Act.
    ``(f) Anti-Abuse Rule.--In the case of a sale which was timed for 
the purpose of avoiding the tax imposed by this section, the Secretary 
may treat such sale as occurring during a day described in subsection 
(b).''.
    (b) No Deduction for Excise Tax Payments.--Section 275 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding ``or by section 
4192'' before the period at the end of subsection (a)(6).
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 4221(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is 
        amended by inserting ``or 4192'' after ``section 4191''.
            (2) Section 6416(b)(2) of such Code is amended by inserting 
        ``or 4192'' after ``section 4191''.
    (d) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) The heading of subchapter E of chapter 32 of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``Medical 
        Devices'' and inserting ``Other Medical Products''.
            (2) The table of subchapters for chapter 32 of such Code is 
        amended by striking the item relating to subchapter E and 
        inserting the following new item:

               ``subchapter e. other medical products''.

            (3) The table of sections for subchapter E of chapter 32 of 
        such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        item:

``Sec. 4192. Selected drugs during noncompliance periods.''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to sales after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 139003. FAIR PRICE NEGOTIATION IMPLEMENTATION FUND.

    (a) In General.--There is hereby established a Fair Price 
Negotiation Implementation Fund (referred to in this section as the 
``Fund''). The Secretary of Health and Human Services may obligate and 
expend amounts in the Fund to carry out this part and parts 2 and 3 
(and the amendments made by such parts).
    (b) Funding.--There is authorized to be appropriated, and there is 
hereby appropriated, out of any monies in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, to the Fund $3,000,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which--
            (1) $600,000,000 shall become available on the date of the 
        enactment of this Act;
            (2) $600,000,000 shall become available on October 1, 2023;
            (3) $600,000,000 shall become available on October 1, 2024;
            (4) $600,000,000 shall become available on October 1, 2025; 
        and
            (5) $600,000,000 shall become available on October 1, 2026.
    (c) Supplement Not Supplant.--Any amounts appropriated pursuant to 
this section shall be in addition to any other amounts otherwise 
appropriated pursuant to any other provision of law.
