---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Part 2 - Prescription Drug Inflation Rebates

## SEC. 139101. MEDICARE PART B REBATE BY MANUFACTURERS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1834 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395m) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(z) Rebate by Manufacturers for Single Source Drugs With Prices 
Increasing Faster Than Inflation.--
            ``(1) Requirements.--
                    ``(A) Secretarial provision of information.--Not 
                later than 6 months after the end of each calendar 
                quarter beginning on or after July 1, 2023, the 
                Secretary shall, for each part B rebatable drug, report 
                to each manufacturer of such part B rebatable drug the 
                following for such calendar quarter:
                            ``(i) Information on the total number of 
                        units of the billing and payment code described 
                        in subparagraph (A)(i) of paragraph (3) with 
                        respect to such drug and calendar quarter.
                            ``(ii) Information on the amount (if any) 
                        of the excess average sales price increase 
                        described in subparagraph (A)(ii) of such 
                        paragraph for such drug and calendar quarter.
                            ``(iii) The rebate amount specified under 
                        such paragraph for such part B rebatable drug 
                        and calendar quarter.
                    ``(B) Manufacturer requirement.--For each calendar 
                quarter beginning on or after July 1, 2023, the 
                manufacturer of a part B rebatable drug shall, for such 
                drug, not later than 30 days after the date of receipt 
                from the Secretary of the information described in 
                subparagraph (A) for such calendar quarter, provide to 
                the Secretary a rebate that is equal to the amount 
                specified in paragraph (3) for such drug for such 
                calendar quarter.
            ``(2) Part b rebatable drug defined.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In this subsection, the term 
                `part B rebatable drug' means a single source drug or 
                biological (as defined in subparagraph (D) of section 
                1847A(c)(6)), including a biosimilar biological product 
                (as defined in subparagraph (H) of such section), 
                payable (if such drug were furnished to an individual 
                enrolled under this part) under this part, except such 
                term shall not include such a drug or biological--
                            ``(i) if the average total allowed charges 
                        under this part as determined by the Secretary 
                        for a year per individual that uses such a drug 
                        or biological, as determined by the Secretary, 
                        are less than, subject to subparagraph (B), 
                        $100; or
                            ``(ii) that is a vaccine described in 
                        subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 1861(s)(10).
                    ``(B) Increase.--The dollar amount applied under 
                subparagraph (A)(i)--
                            ``(i) for 2024, shall be the dollar amount 
                        specified under such subparagraph for 2023, 
                        increased by the percentage increase in the 
                        consumer price index for all urban consumers 
                        (United States city average) for the 12-month 
                        period ending with June of the previous year; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) for a subsequent year, shall be the 
                        dollar amount specified in this clause (or 
                        clause (i)) for the previous year, increased by 
                        the percentage increase in the consumer price 
                        index for all urban consumers (United States 
                        city average) for the 12-month period ending 
                        with June of the previous year.
                Any dollar amount specified under this subparagraph 
                that is not a multiple of $10 shall be rounded to the 
                nearest multiple of $10.
            ``(3) Rebate amount.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of paragraph (1), 
                the amount specified in this paragraph for a part B 
                rebatable drug assigned to a billing and payment code 
                for a calendar quarter is, subject to subparagraph (B) 
                and paragraph (4), the amount equal to the product of--
                            ``(i) the total number of units, as 
                        described in section 1847A(c)(1)(B), with 
                        respect to such drug during the calendar 
                        quarter; and
                            ``(ii) the amount (if any) by which--
                                    ``(I) the payment amount under 
                                subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 
                                1847A(b)(1), as applicable, for such 
                                part B rebatable drug during the 
                                calendar quarter; exceeds
                                    ``(II) the inflation-adjusted 
                                payment amount determined under 
                                subparagraph (C) for such part B 
                                rebatable drug during the calendar 
                                quarter.
                    ``(B) Excluded units.--For purposes of subparagraph 
                (A)(i), the Secretary shall exclude from the total 
                number of units with respect to a part B rebatable drug 
                and calendar quarter units of such part B rebatable 
                drug for which payment was made under a State plan 
                under title XIX (or waiver of such plan), as reported 
                by States under section 1927(b)(2)(A) for the most 
                recent rebate period.
                    ``(C) Determination of inflation-adjusted payment 
                amount.--The inflation-adjusted payment amount 
                determined under this subparagraph for a part B 
                rebatable drug for a calendar quarter is--
                            ``(i) the payment amount for the billing 
                        and payment code for such drug in the payment 
                        amount benchmark quarter (as defined in 
                        subparagraph (D)); increased by
                            ``(ii) the percentage by which the rebate 
                        period CPI-U (as defined in subparagraph (F)) 
                        for the calendar quarter exceeds the benchmark 
                        period CPI-U (as defined in subparagraph (E)).
                    ``(D) Payment amount benchmark quarter.--The term 
                `payment amount benchmark quarter' means the calendar 
                quarter beginning January 1, 2016.
                    ``(E) Benchmark period cpi-u.--The term `benchmark 
                period CPI-U' means the consumer price index for all 
                urban consumers (United States city average) for July 
                2015.
                    ``(F) Rebate period cpi-u.--The term `rebate period 
                CPI-U' means, with respect to a calendar quarter 
                described in subparagraph (C), the greater of the 
                benchmark period CPI-U and the consumer price index for 
                all urban consumers (United States city average) for 
                the first month of the calendar quarter that is two 
                calendar quarters prior to such described calendar 
                quarter.
            ``(4) Special treatment of certain drugs and exemption.--
                    ``(A) Subsequently approved drugs.--Subject to 
                subparagraph (B), in the case of a part B rebatable 
                drug first approved or licensed by the Food and Drug 
                Administration after July 1, 2015, clause (i) of 
                paragraph (3)(C) shall be applied as if the term 
                `payment amount benchmark quarter' were defined under 
                paragraph (3)(D) as the third full calendar quarter 
                after the day on which the drug was first marketed and 
                clause (ii) of paragraph (3)(C) shall be applied as if 
                the term `benchmark period CPI-U' were defined under 
                paragraph (3)(E) as if the reference to `July 2015' 
                under such paragraph were a reference to `the first 
                month of the first full calendar quarter after the day 
                on which the drug was first marketed'.
                    ``(B) Timeline for provision of rebates for 
                subsequently approved drugs.--In the case of a part B 
                rebatable drug first approved or licensed by the Food 
                and Drug Administration after July 1, 2015, paragraph 
                (1)(B) shall be applied as if the reference to `July 1, 
                2023' under such paragraph were a reference to the 
                later of the 6th full calendar quarter after the day on 
                which the drug was first marketed or July 1, 2023.
                    ``(C) Exemption for shortages.--The Secretary may 
                reduce or waive the rebate amount under paragraph 
                (1)(B) with respect to a part B rebatable drug that is 
                described as currently in shortage on the shortage list 
                in effect under section 506E of the Federal Food, Drug, 
                and Cosmetic Act or in the case of other exigent 
                circumstances, as determined by the Secretary.
                    ``(D) Selected drugs.--In the case of a part B 
                rebatable drug that is a selected drug (as defined in 
                section 1192(c)) for a price applicability period (as 
                defined in section 1191(b)(2))--
                            ``(i) for calendar quarters during such 
                        period for which a maximum fair price (as 
                        defined in section 1191(c)(2)) for such drug 
                        has been determined and is applied under part E 
                        of title XI, the rebate amount under paragraph 
                        (1)(B) shall be waived; and
                            ``(ii) in the case such drug is determined 
                        (pursuant to such section 1192(c)) to no longer 
                        be a selected drug, for each applicable year 
                        beginning after the price applicability period 
                        with respect to such drug, clause (i) of 
                        paragraph (3)(C) shall be applied as if the 
                        term `payment amount benchmark quarter' were 
                        defined under paragraph (3)(D) as the calendar 
                        quarter beginning January 1 of the last year 
                        beginning during such price applicability 
                        period with respect to such selected drug and 
                        clause (ii) of paragraph (3)(C) shall be 
                        applied as if the term `benchmark period CPI-U' 
                        were defined under paragraph (3)(E) as if the 
                        reference to `July 2015' under such paragraph 
                        were a reference to the July of the year 
                        preceding such last year.
            ``(5) Application to beneficiary coinsurance.--In the case 
        of a part B rebatable drug, if the payment amount under this 
        part for a quarter exceeds the inflation adjusted payment for 
        such quarter--
                    ``(A) in computing the amount of any coinsurance 
                applicable under this part to an individual to whom 
                such drug is furnished, the computation of such 
                coinsurance shall be based on the inflation-adjusted 
                payment amount determined under paragraph (3)(C) for 
                such part B rebatable drug; and
                    ``(B) the amount of such coinsurance is equal to 20 
                percent of such inflation-adjusted payment amount so 
                determined.
            ``(6) Rebate deposits.--Amounts paid as rebates under 
        paragraph (1)(B) shall be deposited into the Federal 
        Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund established under 
        section 1841.
            ``(7) Civil money penalty.--If a manufacturer of a part B 
        rebatable drug has failed to comply with the requirements under 
        paragraph (1)(B) for such drug for a calendar quarter, the 
        manufacturer shall be subject to, in accordance with a process 
        established by the Secretary pursuant to regulations, a civil 
        money penalty in an amount equal to at least 125 percent of the 
        amount specified in paragraph (3) for such drug for such 
        calendar quarter. The provisions of section 1128A (other than 
        subsections (a) (with respect to amounts of penalties or 
        additional assessments) and (b)) shall apply to a civil money 
        penalty under this paragraph in the same manner as such 
        provisions apply to a penalty or proceeding under section 
        1128A(a).
            ``(8) Application to multiple source drugs.--The Secretary 
        may, pursuant to rulemaking, apply the provisions of this 
        subsection to multiple source drugs (as defined in section 
        1847A(c)(6)(C)), including, for purposes of determining the 
        rebate amount under paragraph (3), by calculating manufacturer-
        specific average sales prices for the benchmark period and the 
        rebate period.''.
    (b) Amounts Payable; Cost-Sharing.--Section 1833 of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395l) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (G), by inserting ``, 
                        subject to subsection (i)(9),'' after ``the 
                        amounts paid'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (S), by striking 
                        ``with respect to'' and inserting ``subject to 
                        subparagraph (DD), with respect to'';
                            (iii) by striking ``and (DD)'' and 
                        inserting ``(EE)''; and
                            (iv) by inserting before the semicolon at 
                        the end the following: ``, and (EE) with 
                        respect to a part B rebatable drug (as defined 
                        in paragraph (2) of section 1834(z)) for which 
                        the payment amount for a calendar quarter under 
                        paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(I) of such section for 
                        such quarter exceeds the inflation-adjusted 
                        payment under paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(II) of such 
                        section for such quarter, the amounts paid 
                        shall be the difference between (i) the payment 
                        amount under paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(I) of such 
                        section for such drug, and (ii) 20 percent of 
                        the inflation-adjusted payment amount under 
                        paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(II) of such section for 
                        such drug''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end of the flush left matter 
                following paragraph (9), the following:
``For purposes of applying paragraph (1)(EE), subsections (i)(9) and 
(t)(8)(F), and section 1834(z)(5), the Secretary shall make such 
estimates and use such data as the Secretary determines appropriate, 
and may do so by program instruction or otherwise.'';
            (2) in subsection (i), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
    ``(9) In the case of a part B rebatable drug (as defined in 
paragraph (2) of section 1834(z)) for which payment under this 
subsection is not packaged into a payment for a covered OPD service (as 
defined in subsection (t)(1)(B)) (or group of services) furnished on or 
after July 1, 2023, under the system under this subsection, in lieu of 
calculation of coinsurance and the amount of payment otherwise 
applicable under this subsection, the provisions of section 1834(z)(5), 
paragraph (1)(EE) of subsection (a), and the flush left matter 
following paragraph (9) of subsection (a), shall, as determined 
appropriate by the Secretary, apply under this subsection in the same 
manner as such provisions of section 1834(z)(5) and subsection (a) 
apply under such section and subsection.''; and
            (3) in subsection (t)(8), by adding at the end the 
        following new subparagraph:
                    ``(F) Part b rebatable drugs.--In the case of a 
                part B rebatable drug (as defined in paragraph (2) of 
                section 1834(z)) for which payment under this part is 
                not packaged into a payment for a service furnished on 
                or after July 1, 2023, under the system under this 
                subsection, in lieu of calculation of coinsurance and 
                the amount of payment otherwise applicable under this 
                subsection, the provisions of section 1834(z)(5), 
                paragraph (1)(EE) of subsection (a), and the flush left 
                matter following paragraph (9) of subsection (a), 
                shall, as determined appropriate by the Secretary, 
                apply under this subsection in the same manner as such 
                provisions of section 1834(z)(5) and subsection (a) 
                apply under such section and subsection.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) To part b asp calculation.--Section 1847A(c)(3) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-3a(c)(3)) is amended by 
        inserting ``or section 1834(z)'' after ``section 1927''.
            (2) Excluding parts b drug inflation rebate from best 
        price.--Section 1927(c)(1)(C)(ii)(I) of the Social Security Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1396r-8(c)(1)(C)(ii)(I)) is amended by inserting 
        ``or section 1834(z)'' after ``this section''.
            (3) Coordination with medicaid rebate information 
        disclosure.--Section 1927(b)(3)(D)(i) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r-8(b)(3)(D)(i)) is amended by striking ``or 
        to carry out section 1847B'' and inserting ``to carry out 
        section 1847B or section 1834(z)''.

SEC. 139102. MEDICARE PART D REBATE BY MANUFACTURERS.

    (a) In General.--Part D of title XVIII of the Social Security Act 
is amended by inserting after section 1860D-14A (42 U.S.C. 1395w-114a) 
the following new section:

``SEC. 1860D-14B. MANUFACTURER REBATE FOR CERTAIN DRUGS WITH PRICES 
              INCREASING FASTER THAN INFLATION.

    ``(a) Requirements.--
            ``(1) Secretarial provision of information.--Not later than 
        9 months after the end of each applicable year (as defined in 
        subsection (g)(7)), the Secretary shall, for each part D 
        rebatable drug, report to each manufacturer of such part D 
        rebatable drug the following for such year:
                    ``(A) Information on the amount (if any) of the 
                excess average manufacturer price increase described in 
                subsection (b)(1)(B) for each dosage form and strength 
                with respect to such drug and year.
                    ``(B) The rebate amount specified under subsection 
                (b) for each dosage form and strength with respect to 
                such drug and year.
            ``(2) Manufacturer requirements.--For each applicable year, 
        the manufacturer of a part D rebatable drug, for each dosage 
        form and strength with respect to such drug, not later than 30 
        days after the date of receipt from the Secretary of the 
        information described in paragraph (1) for such year, shall 
        provide to the Secretary a rebate that is equal to the amount 
        specified in subsection (b) for such dosage form and strength 
        with respect to such drug for such year.
    ``(b) Rebate Amount.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Calculation.--For purposes of this section, 
                the amount specified in this subsection for a dosage 
                form and strength with respect to a part D rebatable 
                drug and applicable year is, subject to subparagraph 
                (B) of this paragraph and subparagraphs (B) and (C) of 
                paragraph (5), the amount equal to the product of--
                            ``(i) the total number of units that are 
                        used to calculate the average manufacturer 
                        price of such dosage form and strength with 
                        respect to such part D rebatable drug, as 
                        reported by the manufacturer of such drug under 
                        section 1927 for each recent rebate period 
                        under such section, with respect to such year, 
                        under such section for which such information 
                        is available; and
                            ``(ii) the amount (if any) by which--
                                    ``(I) the annual manufacturer price 
                                (as determined in paragraph (2)) paid 
                                for such dosage form and strength with 
                                respect to such part D rebatable drug 
                                for the year; exceeds
                                    ``(II) the inflation-adjusted 
                                payment amount determined under 
                                paragraph (3) for such dosage form and 
                                strength with respect to such part D 
                                rebatable drug for the year.
                    ``(B) Excluded units.--For purposes of subparagraph 
                (A)(i), the Secretary shall exclude from the total 
                number of units for a dosage form and strength with 
                respect to a part D rebatable drug and the most recent 
                rebate period under section 1927, with respect to an 
                applicable year, for which such information is 
                available, units of each dosage form and strength of 
                such part D rebatable drug, for which payment was made 
                under a State plan under title XIX (or waiver of such 
                plan), as reported by States under section 
                1927(b)(2)(A) for such rebate period.
            ``(2) Determination of annual manufacturer price.--The 
        annual manufacturer price determined under this paragraph for a 
        dosage form and strength, with respect to a part D rebatable 
        drug and an applicable year, is the sum of the products of--
                    ``(A) the average manufacturer price (as defined in 
                subsection (g)(6)) of such dosage form and strength, as 
                calculated for a unit of such drug, with respect to 
                each of the calendar quarters of such year; and
                    ``(B) the ratio of--
                            ``(i) the total number of units of such 
                        dosage form and strength reported for the 
                        purpose of calculating average manufacturer 
                        price under section 1927 during each such 
                        calendar quarter of such year; to
                            ``(ii) the total number of units of such 
                        dosage form and strength reported for the 
                        purpose of calculating average manufacturer 
                        price under section 1927 during such year, as 
                        determined by the Secretary.
            ``(3) Determination of inflation-adjusted payment amount.--
        The inflation-adjusted payment amount determined under this 
        paragraph for a dosage form and strength with respect to a part 
        D rebatable drug for an applicable year, subject to 
        subparagraphs (A) and (D) of paragraph (5), is--
                    ``(A) the benchmark year manufacturer price 
                determined under paragraph (4) for such dosage form and 
                strength with respect to such drug and year; increased 
                by
                    ``(B) the percentage by which the applicable year 
                CPI-U (as defined in subsection (g)(5)) for the year 
                exceeds the benchmark period CPI-U (as defined in 
                subsection (g)(4)).
            ``(4) Determination of benchmark year manufacturer price.--
        The benchmark year manufacturer price determined under this 
        paragraph for a dosage form and strength, with respect to a 
        part D rebatable drug and an applicable year, is the sum of the 
        products of--
                    ``(A) the average manufacturer price (as defined in 
                subsection (g)(6)) of such dosage form and strength, as 
                calculated for a unit of such drug, with respect to 
                each of the calendar quarters of the payment amount 
                benchmark year (as defined in subsection (g)(3)); and
                    ``(B) the ratio of--
                            ``(i) the total number of units of such 
                        dosage form and strength dispensed during each 
                        such calendar quarter of such payment amount 
                        benchmark year; to
                            ``(ii) the total number of units of such 
                        dosage form and strength dispensed during such 
                        payment amount benchmark year.
            ``(5) Special treatment of certain drugs and exemption.--
                    ``(A) Subsequently approved drugs.--In the case of 
                a part D rebatable drug first approved or licensed by 
                the Food and Drug Administration after January 1, 2016, 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (4) shall be 
                applied as if the term `payment amount benchmark year' 
                were defined under subsection (g)(3) as the first 
                calendar year beginning after the day on which the drug 
                was first marketed by any manufacturer and subparagraph 
                (B) of paragraph (3) shall be applied as if the term 
                `benchmark period CPI-U' were defined under subsection 
                (g)(4) as if the reference to `January 2016' under such 
                subsection were a reference to `January of the first 
                year beginning after the date on which the drug was 
                first marketed by any manufacturer'.
                    ``(B) Exemption for shortages.--The Secretary may 
                reduce or waive the rebate under paragraph (1) with 
                respect to a part D rebatable drug that is described as 
                currently in shortage on the shortage list in effect 
                under section 506E of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
                Cosmetic Act or in the case of other exigent 
                circumstances, as determined by the Secretary.
                    ``(C) Treatment of new formulations.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In the case of a part D 
                        rebatable drug that is a line extension of a 
                        part D rebatable drug that is an oral solid 
                        dosage form, the Secretary shall establish a 
                        formula for determining the amount specified in 
                        this subsection with respect to such part D 
                        rebatable drug and an applicable year with 
                        consideration of the original part D rebatable 
                        drug.
                            ``(ii) Line extension defined.--In this 
                        subparagraph, the term `line extension' means, 
                        with respect to a part D rebatable drug, a new 
                        formulation of the drug, such as an extended 
                        release formulation, but does not include an 
                        abuse-deterrent formulation of the drug (as 
                        determined by the Secretary), regardless of 
                        whether such abuse-deterrent formulation is an 
                        extended release formulation.
                    ``(D) Selected drugs.--In the case of a part D 
                rebatable drug that is a selected drug (as defined in 
                section 1192(c)) for a price applicability period (as 
                defined in section 1191(b)(2))--
                            ``(i) for plan years during such period for 
                        which a maximum fair price (as defined in 
                        section 1191(c)(2)) for such drug has been 
                        determined and is applied under part E of title 
                        XI, the rebate under subsection (a)(1)(B) shall 
                        be waived; and
                            ``(ii) in the case such drug is determined 
                        (pursuant to such section 1192(c)) to no longer 
                        be a selected drug, for each applicable year 
                        beginning after the price applicability period 
                        with respect to such drug, subparagraphs (A) 
                        and (B) of paragraph (4) shall be applied as if 
                        the term `payment amount benchmark year' were 
                        defined under subsection (g)(3) as the last 
                        year beginning during such price applicability 
                        period with respect to such selected drug and 
                        subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) shall be 
                        applied as if the term `benchmark period CPI-U' 
                        were defined under subsection (g)(4) as if the 
                        reference to `January 2016' under such 
                        subsection were a reference to January of the 
                        last year beginning during such price 
                        applicability period with respect to such drug.
    ``(c) Rebate Deposits.--Amounts paid as rebates under subsection 
(b) shall be deposited into the Medicare Prescription Drug Account in 
the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund established 
under section 1841.
    ``(d) Information.--For purposes of carrying out this section, the 
Secretary shall use information submitted by manufacturers under 
section 1927(b)(3) and information submitted by States under section 
1927(b)(2)(A).
    ``(e) Civil Money Penalty.--If a manufacturer of a part D rebatable 
drug has failed to comply with the requirement under subsection 
(a)(1)(B) with respect to such drug for an applicable year, the 
manufacturer shall be subject to, in accordance with a process 
established by the Secretary pursuant to regulations, a civil money 
penalty in an amount equal to 125 percent of the amount specified in 
subsection (b) for such drug for such year. The provisions of section 
1128A (other than subsections (a) (with respect to amounts of penalties 
or additional assessments) and (b)) shall apply to a civil money 
penalty under this subsection in the same manner as such provisions 
apply to a penalty or proceeding under section 1128A(a).
    ``(f) Judicial Review.--There shall be no judicial review of the 
following:
            ``(1) The determination of units under this section.
            ``(2) The determination of whether a drug is a part D 
        rebatable drug under this section.
            ``(3) The calculation of the rebate amount under this 
        section.
    ``(g) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Part d rebatable drug defined.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `part D rebatable drug' 
                means a drug or biological that would (without 
                application of this section) be a covered part D drug, 
                except such term shall, with respect to an applicable 
                year, not include such a drug or biological if the 
                average annual total cost under this part for such year 
                per individual who uses such a drug or biological, as 
                determined by the Secretary, is less than, subject to 
                subparagraph (B), $100, as determined by the Secretary 
                using the most recent data available or, if data is not 
                available, as estimated by the Secretary.
                    ``(B) Increase.--The dollar amount applied under 
                subparagraph (A)--
                            ``(i) for 2024, shall be the dollar amount 
                        specified under such subparagraph for 2023, 
                        increased by the percentage increase in the 
                        consumer price index for all urban consumers 
                        (United States city average) for the 12-month 
                        period beginning with January of 2023; and
                            ``(ii) for a subsequent year, shall be the 
                        dollar amount specified in this subparagraph 
                        for the previous year, increased by the 
                        percentage increase in the consumer price index 
                        for all urban consumers (United States city 
                        average) for the 12-month period beginning with 
                        January of the previous year.
                Any dollar amount specified under this subparagraph 
                that is not a multiple of $10 shall be rounded to the 
                nearest multiple of $10.
            ``(2) Unit defined.--The term `unit' means, with respect to 
        a part D rebatable drug, the lowest identifiable quantity (such 
        as a capsule or tablet, milligram of molecules, or grams) of 
        the part D rebatable drug, including data reported under 
        section 1927.
            ``(3) Payment amount benchmark year.--The term `payment 
        amount benchmark year' means the year beginning January 1, 
        2016.
            ``(4) Benchmark period cpi-u.--The term `benchmark period 
        CPI-U' means the consumer price index for all urban consumers 
        (United States city average) for January 2016.
            ``(5) Applicable year cpi-u.--The term `applicable year 
        CPI-U' means, with respect to an applicable year, the consumer 
        price index for all urban consumers (United States city 
        average) for January of such year.
            ``(6) Average manufacturer price.--The term `average 
        manufacturer price' has the meaning, with respect to a part D 
        rebatable drug of a manufacturer, given such term in section 
        1927(k)(1), with respect to a covered outpatient drug of a 
        manufacturer for a rebate period under section 1927.
            ``(7) Applicable year.--The term `applicable year' means a 
        year beginning with 2023.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) To part b asp calculation.--Section 1847A(c)(3) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-3a(c)(3)), as amended by 
        section 139101(c)(1), is further amended by striking ``section 
        1927 or section 1834(z)'' and inserting ``section 1927, section 
        1834(z), or section 1860D-14B''.
            (2) Excluding part d drug inflation rebate from best 
        price.--Section 1927(c)(1)(C)(ii)(I) of the Social Security Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1396r-8(c)(1)(C)(ii)(I)), as amended by section 
        139101(c)(2), is further amended by striking ``or section 
        1834(z)'' and inserting ``, section 1834(z), or section 1860D-
        14B''.
            (3) Coordination with medicaid rebate information 
        disclosure.--Section 1927(b)(3)(D)(i) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r-8(b)(3)(D)(i)), as amended by section 
        139101(c)(3), is further amended by striking ``or section 
        1834(z)'' and inserting ``, section 1834(z), or section 1860D-
        14B''.
