---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Part 2 - Renewable Fuels

SEC. 136201. EXTENSION OF INCENTIVES FOR BIODIESEL, RENEWABLE DIESEL 
              AND ALTERNATIVE FUELS.

    (a) Biodiesel and Renewable Diesel Credit.--Section 40A(g) is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2022'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2031''.
    (b) Biodiesel Mixture Credit.--
            (1) In general.--Section 6426(c)(6) is amended by striking 
        ``December 31, 2022'' and inserting ``December 31, 2031''.
            (2) Fuels not used for taxable purposes.--Section 
        6427(e)(6)(B) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2022'' and 
        inserting ``December 31, 2031''.
    (c) Alternative Fuel Credit.--Section 6426(d)(5) is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2021'' and inserting ``December 31, 2031''.
    (d) Alternative Fuel Mixture Credit.--Section 6426(e)(3) is amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2021'' and inserting ``December 31, 2031''.
    (e) Payments for Alternative Fuels.--Section 6427(e)(6)(C) is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2021'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2031''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to fuel sold or used after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 136202. EXTENSION OF SECOND GENERATION BIOFUEL INCENTIVES.

    (a) In General.--Section 40(b)(6)(J)(i) is amended by striking 
``2022'' and inserting ``2032''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to qualified second generation biofuel production after December 
31, 2021.

SEC. 136203. SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL CREDIT.

    (a) In General.--Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 
is amended by inserting after section 40A the following new section:

``SEC. 40B. SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL CREDIT.

    ``(a) In General.--For purposes of section 38, the sustainable 
aviation fuel credit for the taxable year is, with respect to any sale 
or use of a qualified mixture which occurs during such taxable year, an 
amount equal to the product of--
            ``(1) the number of gallons of sustainable aviation fuel in 
        such mixture, multiplied by
            ``(2) the sum of--
                    ``(A) $1.25, plus
                    ``(B) the applicable supplementary amount with 
                respect to such sustainable aviation fuel.
    ``(b) Applicable Supplementary Amount.--For purposes of this 
section, the term `applicable supplementary amount' means, with respect 
to any sustainable aviation fuel, an amount equal to $0.01 for each 
percentage point by which the lifecycle greehouse gas emissions 
reduction percentage with respect to such fuel exceeds 50 percent. In 
no event shall the applicable supplementary amount determined under 
this subsection exceed $0.50.
    ``(c) Qualified Mixture.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`qualified mixture' means a mixture of sustainable aviation fuel and 
kerosene if--
            ``(1) such mixture is produced by the taxpayer in the 
        United States,
            ``(2) such mixture is used by the taxpayer (or sold by the 
        taxpayer for use) in an aircraft,
            ``(3) such sale or use is in the ordinary course of a trade 
        or business of the taxpayer, and
            ``(4) the transfer of such mixture to the fuel tank of such 
        aircraft occurs in the United States.
    ``(d) Sustainable Aviation Fuel.--For purposes of this section, the 
term `sustainable aviation fuel' means liquid fuel which--
            ``(1) meets the requirements of--
                    ``(A) ASTM International Standard D7566, or
                    ``(B) the Fischer Tropsch provisions of ASTM 
                International Standard D1655, Annex A1,
            ``(2) is not derived from palm fatty distillates or 
        petroleum, and
            ``(3) has been certified in accordance with subsection (e) 
        as having a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction 
        percentage of at least 50 percent.
    ``(e) Lifecycle Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Percentage.--For 
purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `lifecycle greenhouse gas 
        emissions reduction percentage' means, with respect to any 
        sustainable aviation fuel, the percentage reduction in 
        lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions achieved by such fuel in 
        comparison with petroleum-based jet fuel as stated in a 
        certification which meets the requirements of paragraphs (2).
            ``(2) Certification methodology.--A certification meets the 
        requirements of this paragraph if such certification (including 
        the methodology and process of such certification) conforms 
        with all requirements (including requirements related to 
        traceability and information transmission) of the most recent 
        Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International 
        Aviation which has been adopted by the International Civil 
        Aviation Organization with the agreement of the United States.
            ``(3) Option to obtain certification from secretary.--Not 
        later than 24 months after the date of the enactment of this 
        section, the Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary 
        of Energy and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency, shall establish procedures pursuant to which taxpayers 
        may obtain a certification which meets the requirements of 
        paragraph (2) from the Secretary.
    ``(f) Registration of Sustainable Aviation Fuel Producers.--No 
credit shall be allowed under this section with respect to any 
sustainable aviation fuel unless the producer of such fuel has entered 
into an agreement with the Secretary to provide the Secretary such 
information with respect to such fuel as the Secretary may require for 
purposes of carrying out this section.
    ``(g) Coordination With Credit Against Excise Tax.--The amount of 
the credit determined under this section with respect to any 
sustainable aviation fuel shall, under rules prescribed by the 
Secretary, be properly reduced to take into account any benefit 
provided with respect to such sustainable aviation fuel solely by 
reason of the application of section 6426 or 6427(e).
    ``(h) Termination.--This section shall not apply to any sale or use 
after December 31, 2031.''.
    (b) Credit Made Part of General Business Credit.-- Section 38(b) is 
amended by striking ``plus'' at the end of paragraph (37), by striking 
the period at the end of paragraph (38) and inserting ``, plus'', and 
by inserting after paragraph (38) the following new paragraph:
            ``(39) the sustainable aviation fuel credit determined 
        under section 40B.''.
    (c) Coordination With Biodiesel Incentives.--
            (1) In general.--Section 40A(d)(1) is amended by inserting 
        ``or 40B'' after ``determined under section 40''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 40A(f) is amended by 
        striking paragraph (4).
    (d) Sustainable Aviation Fuel Added to Credit for Alcohol Fuel, 
Biodiesel, and Alternative Fuel Mixtures.--
            (1) In general.--Section 6426 is amended by adding at the 
        end the following new subsection:
    ``(k) Sustainable Aviation Fuel Credit.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of this section, the 
        sustainable aviation fuel credit for the taxable year is, with 
        respect to any sale or use of a qualified mixture, an amount 
        equal to the product of--
                    ``(A) the number of gallons of sustainable aviation 
                fuel in such mixture, multiplied by
                    ``(B) the sum of--
                            ``(i) $1.25, plus
                            ``(ii) the applicable supplementary amount 
                        with respect to such sustainable aviation fuel.
            ``(2) Applicable supplementary amount.--For purposes of 
        this subsection, the term `applicable supplementary amount' has 
        the meaning given such term in section 40B(b).
            ``(3) Other definitions.--Any term used in this subsection 
        which is also used in section 40B shall have the meaning given 
        such term by section 40B.
            ``(4) Registration requirement.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, rules similar to the rules of section 40B(f) shall 
        apply.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Section 6426 is amended--
                            (i) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``and 
                        (e)'' and inserting ``(e), and (k)'', and
                            (ii) in subsection (h), by striking ``under 
                        section 40 or 40A'' and inserting ``under 
                        section 40, 40A, or 40B''.
                    (B) Section 6427(e)(6) is amended by striking the 
                ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (C), by striking the 
                period at the end of subparagraph (D) and inserting ``, 
                and'', and by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(E) any qualified mixture of sustainable aviation 
                fuel (as defined in section 6426(k)(3)) sold or used 
                after December 31, 2031.''.
    (e) Guidance.--Under rules prescribed by the Secretary of the 
Treasury (or the Secretary's delegate), the amount of the credit 
allowed under section 40B of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as 
added by this subsection) shall be properly reduced to take into 
account any benefit provided with respect to sustainable aviation fuel 
(as defined in such section 40B) by reason of the application of 
section 6426 or section 6427(e).
    (f) Amount of Credit Included in Gross Income.--Section 87 is 
amended by striking ``and'' in paragraph (1), by striking the period at 
the end of paragraph (2) and inserting ``, and'', and by adding at the 
end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) the sustainable aviation fuel credit determined with 
        respect to the taxpayer for the taxable year under section 
        40B(a).''.
    (g) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to fuel sold or used after December 31, 2022.

SEC. 136204. CLEAN HYDROGEN.

    (a) Credit for Production of Clean Hydrogen.--
            (1) In general.--Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of 
        chapter 1 is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:

``SEC. 45X. CREDIT FOR PRODUCTION OF CLEAN HYDROGEN.

    ``(a) Amount of Credit.--For purposes of section 38, the clean 
hydrogen production credit for any taxable year is an amount equal to 
the product of--
            ``(1) the applicable amount, multiplied by
            ``(2) the kilograms of qualified clean hydrogen produced by 
        the taxpayer during such taxable year at a qualified clean 
        hydrogen production facility during the 10-year period 
        beginning on the date such facility was originally placed in 
        service.
    ``(b) Applicable Amount.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of subsection (a)(1), the 
        applicable amount shall be an amount equal to the applicable 
        percentage of $3.00. If any amount as determined under the 
        preceding sentence is not a multiple of 0.1 cent, such amount 
        shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of 0.1 cent.
            ``(2) Applicable percentage.--For purposes of paragraph 
        (1), the term `applicable percentage' means--
                    ``(A) in the case of any qualified clean hydrogen 
                which is produced through a process that, as compared 
                to hydrogen produced by steam-methane reforming, 
                achieves a percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse 
                gas emissions which is less than 75 percent, 20 
                percent,
                    ``(B) in the case of any qualified clean hydrogen 
                which is produced through a process that, as compared 
                to hydrogen produced by steam-methane reforming, 
                achieves a percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse 
                gas emissions which is not less than 75 percent and 
                less than 85 percent, 25 percent,
                    ``(C) in the case of any qualified clean hydrogen 
                which is produced through a process that, as compared 
                to hydrogen produced by steam-methane reforming, 
                achieves a percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse 
                gas emissions which is not less than 85 percent and 
                less than 95 percent, 34 percent, and
                    ``(D) in the case of any qualified clean hydrogen 
                which is produced through a process that, as compared 
                to hydrogen produced by steam-methane reforming, 
                achieves a percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse 
                gas emissions which is not less than 95 percent, 100 
                percent.
            ``(3) Inflation adjustment.--The $3.00 amount in paragraph 
        (1) shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by the 
        inflation adjustment factor (as determined under section 
        45(e)(2), determined by substituting `2020' for `1992' in 
        subparagraph (B) thereof) for the calendar year in which the 
        qualified clean hydrogen is produced. If any amount as 
        increased under the preceding sentence is not a multiple of 0.1 
        cent, such amount shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of 
        0.1 cent.
    ``(c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions.--For purposes of 
        this section, the term `lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions' has 
        the same meaning given such term under subparagraph (H) of 
        section 211(o)(1) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545(o)(1)), 
        as in effect on the date of enactment of this section, as 
        related to the full fuel lifecycle through the point of 
        hydrogen production.
            ``(2) Qualified clean hydrogen.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `qualified clean 
                hydrogen' means hydrogen which is produced through a 
                process that, as compared to hydrogen produced by 
                steam-methane reforming, achieves a percentage 
                reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions which 
                is not less than 40 percent.
                    ``(B) Additional requirements.--Such term shall not 
                include any hydrogen unless such hydrogen is produced--
                            ``(i) in the United States (as defined in 
                        section 638(1) or a possession of the United 
                        States (as defined in section 638(2)),
                            ``(ii) in the ordinary course of a trade or 
                        business of the taxpayer, and
                            ``(iii) for sale or use.
            ``(3) Qualified clean hydrogen production facility.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `qualified clean 
                hydrogen production facility' means a facility owned by 
                the taxpayer which produces qualified clean hydrogen 
                and which meets the requirements of subparagraph (B).
                    ``(B) Termination.--The term `qualified clean 
                hydrogen production facility' shall not include any 
                facility the construction of which begins after 
                December 31, 2028.
            ``(4) Steam-methane reforming.--The term `steam-methane 
        reforming' means a hydrogen production process in which high-
        temperature steam is used to produce hydrogen from natural gas 
        (other than natural gas derived from biomass (as defined in 
        section 45K(c)(3) as in effect on the date of the enactment of 
        this section), without carbon capture and sequestration.
    ``(d) Special Rules.--
            ``(1) Treatment of facilities owned by more than 1 
        taxpayer.--Rules similar to the rules section 45(e)(3) shall 
        apply for purposes of this section.
            ``(2) Coordination with credit for carbon oxide 
        sequestration.--No credit shall be allowed under this section 
        with respect to any qualified clean hydrogen produced at a 
        facility which includes property for which a credit is allowed 
        under section 45Q.
    ``(e) Base Credit Amount and Increased Credit Amount for Qualified 
Clean Hydrogen Production Facilities.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of any qualified clean 
        hydrogen production facility which does not satisfy the 
        requirements of paragraph (2)(B), the amount of the credit 
        determined under subsection (a) shall be 20 percent of such 
        amount (determined without regard to this sentence).
            ``(2) Increased credit for certain facilities meeting 
        project requirements.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of any qualified 
                facility which meets the project requirements of this 
                paragraph, paragraph (1) shall not apply.
                    ``(B) Project requirements.--A project meets the 
                requirements of this subparagraph if it is one of the 
                following:
                            ``(i) A project with a maximum net output 
                        of less than 1 megawatt.
                            ``(ii) A project which commences 
                        construction prior to the date of the enactment 
                        of this paragraph.
                            ``(iii) A project which satisfies the 
                        requirements of paragraphs (3) and (4).
            ``(3) Prevailing wage requirements.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The requirements described in 
                this subparagraph with respect to any qualified clean 
                hydrogen production facility are that the taxpayer 
                shall ensure that any laborers and mechanics employed 
                by contractors and subcontractors in--
                            ``(i) the construction of such facility, 
                        and
                            ``(ii) for the 10-year period beginning on 
                        the date the facility was originally placed in 
                        service, the alteration or repair of such 
                        facility,
                shall be paid wages at rates not less than the 
                prevailing rates for construction, alteration, or 
                repair of a similar character in the locality as most 
                recently determined by the Secretary of Labor, in 
                accordance with subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 
                40, United States Code.
                    ``(B) Correction and penalty related to failure to 
                satisfy wage requirements.--Rules similar to the rules 
                of section 45(b)(8)(B) shall apply for purposes of this 
                subparagraph.
            ``(4) Apprenticeship requirements.--Rules similar to the 
        rules of section 45(b)(9) shall apply for purposes of this 
        paragraph.
            ``(5) Regulations and guidance.--The Secretary shall issue 
        such regulations or other guidance as the Secretary determines 
        necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this 
        subsection.
    ``(f) Regulations.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Secretary, after consultation with the 
Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency, shall issue regulations or other guidance to carry 
out the purposes of this section, including regulations or other 
guidance--
            ``(1) for determining lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions, 
        and
            ``(2) which require verification by unrelated third parties 
        of the production and sale or use of qualified clean hydrogen 
        with respect to which credit is otherwise allowed under this 
        section.''.
            (2) Elective payment of credit.--Section 6417(b), as added 
        by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by adding 
        at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(9) The credit for production of clean hydrogen 
        determined under section 45X.''.
            (3) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Section 38(b) is amended--
                            (i) in paragraph (38), by striking ``plus'' 
                        at the end,
                            (ii) in paragraph (39), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``, plus'', and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new paragraph:
            ``(40) the clean hydrogen production credit determined 
        under section 45X(a).''.
                    (B) The table of sections for subpart D of part IV 
                of subchapter A of chapter 1 amended by adding at the 
                end the following new item:

``Sec. 45X. Credit for production of clean hydrogen.''.
            (4) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
        shall apply to hydrogen placed in service after December 31, 
        2021.
    (b) Credit for Electricity Produced From Renewable Resources 
Allowed if Electricity Is Used to Produce Clean Hydrogen.--
            (1) In general.--Section 45(e) is amended by adding at the 
        end the following new paragraph:
            ``(13) Special rule for electricity used at a qualified 
        clean hydrogen production facility.--Electricity produced by 
        the taxpayer shall be treated as sold by such taxpayer to an 
        unrelated person during the taxable year if such electricity is 
        used during such taxable year by the taxpayer or a person 
        related to the taxpayer at a qualified clean hydrogen 
        production facility (as defined in section 45X(d)(3)) to 
        produce qualified clean hydrogen (as defined in section 
        45X(d)(2)) during the 10 year period after such facility is 
        placed in service. The Secretary shall issue such regulations 
        or other guidance as the Secretary determines appropriate to 
        carry out the purposes of this paragraph, including regulations 
        or other guidance to require verification by unrelated third 
        parties of the production and use of electricity to which this 
        paragraph applies.''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by this subsection 
        shall apply to electricity produced after December 31, 2021.
    (c) Election to Treat Clean Hydrogen Production Facilities as 
Energy Property.--
            (1) In general.--Section 48(a) is amended by adding at the 
        end the following new paragraph:
            ``(8) Election to treat clean hydrogen production 
        facilities as energy property.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of any qualified 
                property (as defined in paragraph (5)(D)) which is part 
                of a specified clean hydrogen production facility--
                            ``(i) such property shall be treated as 
                        energy property for purposes of this section, 
                        and
                            ``(ii) the energy percentage with respect 
                        to such property is--
                                    ``(I) in the case of a facility 
                                which is designed and reasonably 
                                expected to produce qualified clean 
                                hydrogen which is described in a 
                                subparagraph (A) of section 45X(b)(2), 
                                6 percent,
                                    ``(II) in the case of a facility 
                                which is designed and reasonably 
                                expected to produce qualified clean 
                                hydrogen which is described in a 
                                subparagraph (B) of such section, 7.5 
                                percent,
                                    ``(III) in the case of a facility 
                                which is designed and reasonably 
                                expected to produce qualified clean 
                                hydrogen which is described in a 
                                subparagraph (C) of such section, 10.2 
                                percent, and
                                    ``(IV) in the case of a facility 
                                which is designed and reasonably 
                                expected to produce qualified clean 
                                hydrogen which is described in a 
                                subparagraph (D) of such section, 30 
                                percent.
                    ``(B) Denial of production credit.--No credit shall 
                be allowed under section 45X for any taxable year with 
                respect to any specified clean hydrogen production 
                facility.
                    ``(C) Specified clean hydrogen production 
                facility.--For purposes of this paragraph, the term 
                `specified clean hydrogen production facility' means 
                any qualified clean hydrogen production facility (as 
                defined in section 45X(d)(3)) or any portion of such 
                facility--
                            ``(i) which is placed in service after 
                        December 31, 2021, and
                            ``(ii) with respect to which--
                                    ``(I) no credit has been allowed 
                                under section 45X or 45Q, and
                                    ``(II) the taxpayer makes an 
                                irrevocable election to have this 
                                paragraph apply.
                    ``(D) Qualified clean hydrogen.--For purposes of 
                this paragraph, the term `qualified clean hydrogen' has 
                the meaning given such term by section 45X(d)(2).
                    ``(E) Regulations.--The Secretary, after 
                consultation with the Secretary of Energy and the 
                Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, 
                shall issue such regulations or other guidance as the 
                Secretary determines necessary or appropriate to carry 
                out the purposes of this section, including regulations 
                or other guidance which--
                            ``(i) requires verification by one or more 
                        unrelated third parties that the facility 
                        produces hydrogen which is consistent with the 
                        hydrogen that such facility was designed and 
                        expected to produce under subparagraph (A)(ii), 
                        and
                            ``(ii) recaptures so much of any credit 
                        allowed under this section as exceeds the 
                        amount of the credit which would have been 
                        allowed if the expected production were 
                        consistent with the actual verified production 
                        (or all of the credit so allowed in the absence 
                        of such verification).''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by this section 
        shall apply to periods after December 31, 2021, under rules 
        similar to the rules of section 48(m) of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986 (as in effect on the day before the date of the 
        enactment of the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1990).
    (d) Termination of Excise Tax Credit for Hydrogen.--
            (1) In general.--Section 6426(d)(2) is amended by striking 
        subparagraph (D) and by redesignating subparagraphs (E), (F), 
        and (G) as subparagraphs (D), (E), and (F), respectively.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 6426(e)(2) is amended by 
        striking ``(F)'' and inserting ``(E)''.
            (3) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
        shall apply to fuel sold or used after December 31, 2021.
