---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Part 4 - Greening The Fleet And Alternative Vehicles

SEC. 136401. REFUNDABLE NEW QUALIFIED PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE MOTOR 
              VEHICLE CREDIT FOR INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) In General.--Subpart C of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 
is amended by inserting after section 36B the following new section:

``SEC. 36C. NEW QUALIFIED PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE MOTOR VEHICLES.

    ``(a) Allowance of Credit.--In the case of an individual, there 
shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by this subtitle 
for the taxable year an amount equal to the sum of the credit amounts 
determined under subsection (b) with respect to each new qualified 
plug-in electric drive motor vehicle placed in service by the taxpayer 
during the taxable year.
    ``(b) Per Vehicle Dollar Limitation.--
            ``(1) In general.--The amount determined under this 
        subsection with respect to any new qualified plug-in electric 
        drive motor vehicle is the sum of the amounts determined under 
        paragraphs (2) through (5) with respect to such vehicle (not to 
        exceed 50 percent of the purchase price of such vehicle).
            ``(2) Base amount.--The amount determined under this 
        paragraph is $4,000.
            ``(3) Battery capacity.--In the case of a new qualified 
        plug-in electric drive motor vehicle, the amount determined 
        under this paragraph is $3,500 if--
                    ``(A) in the case of a vehicle placed in service 
                before January 1, 2027, such vehicle draws propulsion 
                energy from a battery with not less than 40 kilowatt 
                hours of capacity, and
                    ``(B) in the case of a vehicle placed in service 
                after December 31, 2026, such vehicle draws propulsion 
                energy from a battery with not less than 50 kilowatt 
                hours of capacity.
            ``(4) Domestic assembly.--In the case of a new qualified 
        plug-in vehicle which satisfies the domestic assembly 
        qualifications, the amount determined under this paragraph is 
        $4,500.
            ``(5) Domestic content.--In the case of a new qualified 
        plug-in vehicle which satisfies domestic content 
        qualifications, the amount determined under this paragraph is 
        $500.
    ``(c) Limitation Based on Modified Adjusted Gross Income.--
            ``(1) In general.--The amount of the credit allowable under 
        subsection (a) shall be reduced (but not below zero) by $200 
        for each $1,000 (or fraction thereof) by which the taxpayer's 
        modified adjusted gross income exceeds the threshold amount. 
        For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term `modified 
        adjusted gross income' means adjusted gross income increased by 
        any amount excluded from gross income under section 911, 931, 
        or 933.
            ``(2) Special rule for determination of modified adjusted 
        gross income.--The modified adjusted gross income of the 
        taxpayer that is taken into account for purposes of paragraph 
        (1) shall be the lesser of--
                    ``(A) the modified adjusted gross income for the 
                taxable year in which the credit is claimed, or
                    ``(B) the modified adjusted gross income for the 
                immediately preceding taxable year.
            ``(3) Threshold amount.--For purposes of paragraph (1), the 
        term `threshold amount' means--
                    ``(A) $800,000 in the case of a joint return or 
                surviving spouse (half such amount for married filing 
                separately),
                    ``(B) $600,000 in the case of a head of household, 
                and
                    ``(C) $400,000 in any other case.
    ``(d) Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price Limitation.--
            ``(1) In general.--No credit shall be allowed under 
        subsection (a) for a vehicle with a manufacturer's suggested 
        retail price in excess of the applicable limitation.
            ``(2) Applicable limitation.--For purposes of paragraph 
        (1), the applicable limitation for each vehicle classification 
        is as follows:
                    ``(A) Sedans.--In the case of a sedan, $55,000.
                    ``(B) Vans.--In the case of a van, $64,000.
                    ``(C) Sport utility vehicles.--In the case of a 
                sport utility vehicle, $69,000.
                    ``(D) Pickup trucks.--In the case of a pickup 
                truck, $74,000.
            ``(3) Regulations.--For purposes of this subsection, the 
        Secretary shall prescribe regulations for determining vehicle 
        classifications using criteria similar to that employed by the 
        Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Energy to 
        determine size and class of vehicles.
    ``(e) New Qualified Plug-in Electric Drive Motor Vehicle.--For 
purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `new qualified plug-in electric 
        drive motor vehicle' means a motor vehicle--
                    ``(A) the original use of which commences with the 
                taxpayer,
                    ``(B) which is acquired for use by the taxpayer and 
                not for resale,
                    ``(C) which is made by a qualified manufacturer,
                    ``(D) which is treated as a motor vehicle for 
                purposes of title II of the Clean Air Act,
                    ``(E) which has a gross vehicle weight rating of 
                less than 14,000 pounds,
                    ``(F) which is propelled to a significant extent by 
                an electric motor which draws electricity from a 
                battery which--
                            ``(i) has a capacity of--
                                    ``(I) in the case of a vehicle 
                                placed in service in 2022 or 2023, not 
                                less than 7 kilowatt hours, and
                                    ``(II) in the case of a vehicle 
                                placed in service after 2023, not less 
                                than 10 kilowatt hours, and
                            ``(ii) is capable of being recharged from 
                        an external source of electricity,
                    ``(G) for which, in the case of a vehicle placed 
                into service after December 31, 2026, final assembly is 
                within the United States, and
                    ``(H) is not of a character subject to an allowance 
                for depreciation.
            ``(2) Motor vehicle.--The term `motor vehicle' means any 
        vehicle which is manufactured primarily for use on public 
        streets, roads, and highways (not including a vehicle operated 
        exclusively on a rail or rails) and which has at least 4 
        wheels.
            ``(3) Qualified manufacturer.--The term `qualified 
        manufacturer' means any manufacturer (within the meaning of the 
        regulations prescribed by the Administrator of the 
        Environmental Protection Agency for purposes of the 
        administration of title II of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7521 
        et seq.) which enters into a written agreement with the 
        Secretary under which such manufacturer agrees--
                    ``(A) to ensure that each vehicle manufactured by 
                such manufacturer after the later of the date on which 
                such agreement takes effect or December 31, 2021, and 
                that meets the requirements of subparagraphs (D), (E), 
                and (F) of paragraph (1) and paragraph (6) of 
                subsection (e) is labeled with a unique vehicle 
                identification number, and
                    ``(B) to make periodic written reports to the 
                Secretary (at such times and in such manner as the 
                Secretary may provide) providing such vehicle 
                identification numbers and such other information 
                related to such vehicle as the Secretary may require.
            ``(4) Battery capacity.--The term `capacity' means, with 
        respect to any battery, the quantity of electricity which the 
        battery is capable of storing, expressed in kilowatt hours, as 
        measured from a 100 percent state of charge to a 0 percent 
        state of charge.
    ``(f) Special Rules.--
            ``(1) Basis reduction.--For purposes of this subtitle, the 
        basis of any property for which a credit is allowable under 
        subsection (a) shall be reduced by the amount of such credit so 
        allowed.
            ``(2) No double benefit.--The amount of any deduction or 
        other credit allowable under this chapter for a vehicle for 
        which a credit is allowable under subsection (a) shall be 
        reduced by the amount of credit allowed under such subsection 
        for such vehicle.
            ``(3) Property used outside united states not qualified.--
        No credit shall be allowable under subsection (a) with respect 
        to any property referred to in section 50(b)(1).
            ``(4) Recapture.--The Secretary shall, by regulations, 
        provide for recapturing the benefit of any credit allowable 
        under subsection (a) with respect to any property which ceases 
        to be property eligible for such credit.
            ``(5) Election not to take credit.--No credit shall be 
        allowed under subsection (a) for any vehicle if the taxpayer 
        elects to not have this section apply to such vehicle.
            ``(6) Interaction with air quality and motor vehicle safety 
        standards.--A vehicle shall not be considered eligible for a 
        credit under this section unless such vehicle is in compliance 
        with--
                    ``(A) the applicable provisions of the Clean Air 
                Act for the applicable make and model year of the 
                vehicle (or applicable air quality provisions of State 
                law in the case of a State which has adopted such 
                provision under a waiver under section 209(b) of the 
                Clean Air Act), and
                    ``(B) the motor vehicle safety provisions of 
                sections 30101 through 30169 of title 49, United States 
                Code.
    ``(g) Credit Allowed for 2 and 3-wheeled Plug-in Electric 
Vehicles.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of a qualified 2- or 3-
        wheeled plug-in electric vehicle--
                    ``(A) there shall be allowed as a credit against 
                the tax imposed by this subtitle for the taxable year 
                an amount equal to the sum of the applicable amount 
                with respect to each such qualified 2- or 3-wheeled 
                plug-in electric vehicle placed in service by the 
                taxpayer during the taxable year, and
                    ``(B) the amount of the credit allowed under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be treated as a credit allowed 
                under subsection (a).
            ``(2) Applicable amount.--For purposes of paragraph (1), 
        the applicable amount is an amount equal to the lesser of--
                    ``(A) 10 percent of the cost of the qualified 2- or 
                3-wheeled plug-in electric vehicle, or
                    ``(B) $2,500.
            ``(3) Qualified 2- or 3-wheeled plug-in electric vehicle.--
        The term `qualified 2- or 3-wheeled plug-in electric vehicle' 
        means any vehicle which--
                    ``(A) has 2 or 3 wheels,
                    ``(B) meets the requirements of subparagraphs (A), 
                (B), (C), (E), (F), and (G) of subsection (e)(1) 
                (determined by substituting `2.5 kilowatt hours' for `7 
                kilowatt hours' in subparagraph (F)(i)(I) and by 
                substituting `2.5 kilowatt hours' for `10 kilowatt 
                hours' in subparagraph (F)(i)(II)),
                    ``(C) is manufactured primarily for use on public 
                streets, roads, and highways, and
                    ``(D) is capable of achieving a speed of 45 miles 
                per hour or greater.
    ``(h) VIN Number Requirement.--No credit shall be allowed under 
this section with respect to any vehicle unless the taxpayer includes 
the vehicle identification number of such vehicle on the return of tax 
for the taxable year.
    ``(i) Treatment of Certain Possessions.--
            ``(1) Payments to possessions with mirror code tax 
        systems.--The Secretary shall pay to each possession of the 
        United States which has a mirror code tax system amounts equal 
        to the loss (if any) to that possession by reason of the 
        application of the provisions of this section (determined 
        without regard to this subsection). Such amounts shall be 
        determined by the Secretary based on information provided by 
        the government of the respective possession.
            ``(2) Payments to other possessions.--The Secretary shall 
        pay to each possession of the United States which does not have 
        a mirror code tax system amounts estimated by the Secretary as 
        being equal to the aggregate benefits (if any) that would have 
        been provided to residents of such possession by reason of the 
        provisions of this section if a mirror code tax system had been 
        in effect in such possession. The preceding sentence shall not 
        apply unless the respective possession has a plan which has 
        been approved by the Secretary under which such possession will 
        promptly distribute such payments to its residents.
            ``(3) Mirror code tax system; treatment of payments.--Rules 
        similar to the rules of paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 21(h) 
        shall apply for purposes of this section.
    ``(j) Assembly and Content Qualifications.--For purposes of this 
section--
            ``(1) Domestic assembly qualifications.--The term `domestic 
        assembly qualifications' means, with respect to any new 
        qualified plug-in electric vehicle, that the final assembly of 
        such vehicle occurs at a plant, factory, or other place which 
        is operating under a collective bargaining agreement negotiated 
        by an employee organization (as defined in section 412(c)(4)), 
        determined in a manner consistent with section 7701(a)(46).
            ``(2) Domestic content qualifications.--The term `domestic 
        content qualifications' means, with respect to any model of a 
        new qualified plug-in electric vehicle, that vehicles of that 
        model--
                    ``(A) are assembled by a manufacturer which 
                utilizes not less than 50 percent domestic content in 
                the component parts for final assembly of such 
                vehicles, and
                    ``(B) are powered by battery cells which are 
                manufactured in the United States (with suchbattery 
                cells to be included for purposes of the requirement 
                described in subparagraph (A)), as certified by the 
                manufacturer, at such time, and in such form and 
                manner, as the Secretary may prescribe.
            ``(3) Final assembly.--The term `final assembly' means the 
        process by which a manufacturer produces a new qualified plug-
        in electric vehicle at, or through the use of, a plant, 
        factory, or other place from which the vehicle is delivered to 
        a dealer or importer with all component parts necessary for the 
        mechanical operation of the vehicle included with the vehicle, 
        whether or not the component parts are permanently installed in 
        or on the vehicle.
    ``(k) Termination.--No credit shall be allowed under this section 
with respect to any vehicle acquired after December 31, 2031.''.
    (b) Transfer of Credit.--Subsection (f) of section 36C is amended 
by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(7) In general.--Subject to such regulations or other 
        guidance as the Secretary determines necessary or appropriate, 
        if, with respect to the credit allowed under subsection (a) for 
        any taxable year, the taxpayer elects the application of this 
        subparagraph for such taxable year with respect to such credit, 
        the eligible entity specified in such election, and not the 
        taxpayer who has purchased or leased the vehicle, shall be 
        treated as the taxpayer for purposes of this title with respect 
        to such credit.
            ``(8) Eligible entity.--For purposes of this paragraph, the 
        term `eligible entity' means, with respect to the vehicle for 
        which the credit is allowed under subsection (a), the dealer 
        which sold such vehicle to the taxpayer and has--
                    ``(A) subject to paragraph (10), registered with 
                the Secretary for purposes of this paragraph, at such 
                time, and in such form and manner, as the Secretary may 
                prescribe,
                    ``(B) prior to the election described in paragraph 
                (7), disclosed to the taxpayer purchasing such 
                vehicle--
                            ``(i) the manufacturer's suggested retail 
                        price,
                            ``(ii) the value of the credit allowed or 
                        other incentive available for the purchase or 
                        lease of such vehicle,
                            ``(iii) all fees associated with the 
                        purchase or lease of such vehicle, and
                            ``(iv) the amount provided by the dealer to 
                        such taxpayer as a condition of the election 
                        described in paragraph (7),
                    ``(C) made payment to such taxpayer (whether in 
                cash or in the form of a partial payment or down 
                payment for the purchase of such vehicle) in an amount 
                equal to the credit otherwise allowable to such 
                taxpayer, and
                    ``(D) with respect to any incentive otherwise 
                available for the purchase of a vehicle for which a 
                credit is allowed under this section, including any 
                incentive in the form of a rebate or discount provided 
                by the dealer or manufacturer, ensured that--
                            ``(i) the availability or use of such 
                        incentive shall not limit the ability of a 
                        taxpayer to make an election described in 
                        paragraph (7), and
                            ``(ii) such election shall not limit the 
                        value or use of such incentive.
            ``(9) Timing.--An election described in paragraph (7) shall 
        be made by the taxpayer not later than the date on which the 
        vehicle for which the credit is allowed under subsection (a) is 
        purchased.
            ``(10) Revocation of registration.--Upon determination by 
        the Secretary that a dealer has failed to comply with the 
        requirements described in paragraph (8), the Secretary may 
        revoke the registration (as described in subparagraph (A) of 
        such subparagraph) of such dealer.
            ``(11) Tax treatment of payments.--With respect to any 
        payment described in paragraph (8)(C), such payment--
                    ``(A) shall not be includible in the gross income 
                of the taxpayer, and
                    ``(B) with respect to the dealer, shall not be 
                deductible under this title.
            ``(12) Advance payment to registered dealers.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
                program to make advance payments to any eligible entity 
                in an amount equal to the cumulative amount of the 
                credits allowed under subsection (a) with respect to 
                any vehicles sold by such entity for which an election 
                described in paragraph (1) has been made.
                    ``(B) Excessive payments.--Rules similar to the 
                rules of section 6417(c)(8) shall apply for purposes of 
                this subparagraph.
            ``(13) Dealer.--For purposes of this paragraph, the term 
        `dealer' means a person licensed by a State, the District of 
        Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any other territory 
        or possession of the United States, or an Indian Tribe (as 
        defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and 
        Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304)) to engage in the 
        sale of vehicles.''.
    (c) Repeal of Nonrefundable New Qualified Plug-in Electric Drive 
Motor Vehicle Credit.--Subpart B of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 
1 is amended by striking section 30D (and by striking the item relating 
to such section in the table of sections of such subpart).
    (d) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 1016(a)(37) is amended by striking ``section 
        30D(f)(1)'' and inserting ``section 36C(f)(1)''.
            (2) Section 6211(b)(4)(A) is amended by inserting ``36C,'' 
        after ``36B,''.
            (3) Section 6213(g)(2), as amended by the preceding 
        provisions of this Act, is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (R), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end,
                    (B) in subparagraph (S), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``, and'', and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(T) an omission of a correct vehicle 
                identification number required under section 36C(f) 
                (relating to credit for new qualified plug-in electric 
                drive motor vehicles) to be included on a return.''.
            (4) Section 6501(m) is amended by striking ``30D(e)(4)'' 
        and inserting ``36C(f)(5)''.
            (5) Section 166(b)(5)(A)(ii) of title 23, United States 
        Code, is amended by striking ``section 30D(d)(1)'' and 
        inserting ``section 36C(e)(1)''.
            (6) Section 1324(b)(2) of title 31, United States Code, is 
        amended by inserting ``36C,'' after ``36B,''.
            (7) The table of sections for subpart C of part IV of 
        subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 36B the following new item:

``Sec. 36C. New qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicles.''.
    (e) Effective Dates.--
            (1) The amendments made by subsections (a), (c), and (d) of 
        this section shall apply to vehicles acquired after December 
        31, 2021.
            (2) The amendments made by subsection (b) shall apply to 
        vehicles purchased or leased after December 31, 2022.

SEC. 136402. CREDIT FOR PREVIOUSLY-OWNED QUALIFIED PLUG-IN ELECTRIC 
              DRIVE MOTOR VEHICLES.

    (a) In General.--Subpart C of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, 
as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by 
inserting after section 36C the following new section:

``SEC. 36D. PREVIOUSLY-OWNED QUALIFIED PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE MOTOR 
              VEHICLES.

    ``(a) Allowance of Credit.--In the case of a qualified buyer who 
during a taxable year places in service a previously-owned qualified 
plug-in electric drive motor vehicle, there shall be allowed as a 
credit against the tax imposed by this subtitle for the taxable year an 
amount equal to the sum of--
            ``(1) $1,250, plus
            ``(2) in the case of a vehicle which draws propulsion 
        energy from a battery which exceeds 4 kilowatt hours of 
        capacity (determined at the time of sale), the lesser of--
                    ``(A) $1,250, and
                    ``(B) the product of $208.50 and such excess 
                kilowatt hours.
    ``(b) Limitations.--
            ``(1) Sale price.--The credit allowed under subsection (a) 
        with respect to sale of a vehicle shall not exceed 30 percent 
        of the sale price.
            ``(2) Adjusted gross income.--The amount which would (but 
        for this paragraph) be allowed as a credit under subsection (a) 
        shall be reduced (but not below zero) by $200 for each $1,000 
        (or fraction thereof) by which the taxpayer's adjusted gross 
        income exceeds--
                    ``(A) $150,000 in the case of a joint return or a 
                surviving spouse (as defined in section 2(a)),
                    ``(B) $112,500 in the case of a head of household 
                (as defined in section 2(b)), and
                    ``(C) $75,000 in the case of a taxpayer not 
                described in paragraph (1) or (2).
    ``(c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Previously-owned qualified plug-in electric drive 
        motor vehicle.--The term `previously-owned qualified plug-in 
        electric drive motor vehicle' means, with respect to a 
        taxpayer, a motor vehicle--
                    ``(A) the model year of which is at least 2 earlier 
                than the calendar year in which the taxpayer acquires 
                such vehicle,
                    ``(B) the original use of which commences with a 
                person other than the taxpayer,
                    ``(C) which is acquired by the taxpayer in a 
                qualified sale,
                    ``(D) registered by the taxpayer for operation in a 
                State or possession of the United States, and
                    ``(E) which meets the requirements of subparagraphs 
                (C), (D), (E), (F), and (G) of section 36C(e)(1).
            ``(2) Qualified sale.--The term `qualified sale' means a 
        sale of a motor vehicle--
                    ``(A) by a seller who holds such vehicle in 
                inventory (within the meaning of section 471) for sale 
                or lease,
                    ``(B) for a sale price not to exceed $25,000, and
                    ``(C) which is the first transfer since the date of 
                the enactment of this section to a person other than 
                the person with whom the original use of such vehicle 
                commenced.
            ``(3) Qualified buyer.--The term `qualified buyer' means, 
        with respect to a sale of a motor vehicle, a taxpayer--
                    ``(A) who is an individual,
                    ``(B) who purchases such vehicle for use and not 
                for resale,
                    ``(C) with respect to whom no deduction is 
                allowable with respect to another taxpayer under 
                section 151,
                    ``(D) who has not been allowed a credit under this 
                section for any sale during the 3-year period ending on 
                the date of the sale of such vehicle, and
                    ``(E) who possesses a certificate issued by the 
                seller that certifies--
                            ``(i) that the vehicle is a previously-
                        owned qualified plug-in electric drive motor 
                        vehicle,
                            ``(ii) the vehicle identification number of 
                        such vehicle,
                            ``(iii) the capacity of the battery at time 
                        of sale, and
                            ``(iv) such other information as the 
                        Secretary may require.
            ``(4) Motor vehicle; capacity.--The terms `motor vehicle' 
        and `capacity' have the meaning given such terms in paragraphs 
        (2) and (4) of section 36C(e), respectively.
    ``(d) VIN Number Requirement.--No credit shall be allowed under 
subsection (a) with respect to any vehicle unless the taxpayer includes 
the vehicle identification number of such vehicle on the return of tax 
for the taxable year.
    ``(e) Application of Certain Rules.--For purposes of this section, 
rules similar to the rules of paragraphs (1), (2), (4), (5), (6) and 
(7) of section 36C(f) shall apply for purposes of this section.
    ``(f) Certificate Submission Requirement.--The Secretary may 
require that the issuer of the certificate described in subsection 
(c)(3)(E) submit such certificate to the Secretary at the time and in 
the manner required by the Secretary.
    ``(g) Treatment of Certain Possessions.--
            ``(1) Payments to possessions with mirror code tax 
        systems.--The Secretary shall pay to each possession of the 
        United States which has a mirror code tax system amounts equal 
        to the loss (if any) to that possession by reason of the 
        application of the provisions of this section. Such amounts 
        shall be determined by the Secretary based on information 
        provided by the government of the respective possession.
            ``(2) Payments to other possessions.--The Secretary shall 
        pay to each possession of the United States which does not have 
        a mirror code tax system amounts estimated by the Secretary as 
        being equal to the aggregate benefits (if any) that would have 
        been provided to residents of such possession by reason of the 
        provisions of this section if a mirror code tax system had been 
        in effect in such possession. The preceding sentence shall not 
        apply unless the respective possession has a plan which has 
        been approved by the Secretary under which such possession will 
        promptly distribute such payments to its residents.
            ``(3) Mirror code tax system; treatment of payments.--Rules 
        similar to the rules of paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 21(h) 
        shall apply for purposes of this section.
    ``(h) Termination.--No credit shall be allowed under this section 
with respect to any vehicle acquired after December 31, 2031.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 6211(b)(4)(A), as amended by the preceding 
        provisions of this Act, is amended by inserting ``36D,'' after 
        ``36C,''.
            (2) Section 6213(g)(2), as amended by the preceding 
        provisions of this Act, is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (S), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end,
                    (B) in subparagraph (T), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``, and'', and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(U) an omission of a correct vehicle 
                identification number required under section 36D(d) 
                (relating to credit for previously-owned qualified 
                plug-in electric drive motor vehicles) to be included 
                on a return.''.
            (3) Paragraph (2) of section 1324(b) of title 31, United 
        States Code, as amended by the preceding provisions of this 
        Act, is amended by inserting ``36D,'' after ``36C,''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subpart C of 
part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, as amended by the preceding 
provisions of this Act, is amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 36C the following new item:

``Sec. 36D. Previously-owned qualified plug-in electric drive motor 
                            vehicles.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to vehicles acquired after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 136403. QUALIFIED COMMERCIAL ELECTRIC VEHICLES.

    (a) In General.--Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 
is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 45Y. CREDIT FOR QUALIFIED COMMERCIAL ELECTRIC VEHICLES.

    ``(a) In General.--For purposes of section 38, the qualified 
commercial electric vehicle credit for any taxable year is an amount 
equal to the sum of the credit amounts determined under subsection (b) 
with respect to each qualified commercial electric vehicle placed in 
service by the taxpayer during the taxable year.
    ``(b) Per Vehicle Amount.--The amount determined under this 
subsection with respect to any qualified commercial electric vehicle 
shall be equal to 30 percent of the basis of such vehicle.
    ``(c) Qualified Commercial Electric Vehicle.--For purposes of this 
section, the term `qualified commercial electric vehicle' means any 
vehicle which--
            ``(1) meets the requirements of subparagraphs (A) and (C) 
        of section 36C(e)(1) without regard to any gross vehicle weight 
        rating, and is acquired for use or lease by the taxpayer and 
        not for resale,
            ``(2) either--
                    ``(A) meets the requirements of subparagraph (D) of 
                section 36C(e)(1), or
                    ``(B) is mobile machinery, as defined in section 
                4053(8),
            ``(3) is primarily propelled by an electric motor which 
        draws electricity from a battery which--
                    ``(A) has a capacity of not less than 30 kilowatt 
                hours,
                    ``(B) is capable of being recharged from an 
                external source of electricity,
                    ``(C) is not powered or charged by an internal 
                combustion engine, or
                    ``(D) is a new qualified fuel cell motor vehicle 
                described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 
                30B(b)(3), and
            ``(4) is of a character subject to the allowance for 
        depreciation.
    ``(d) Special Rules.--
            ``(1) In general.--Rules similar to the rules under 
        subsection (f) of section 36C shall apply for purposes of this 
        section.
            ``(2) Property used by tax-exempt entity.--In the case of a 
        vehicle the use of which is described in paragraph (3) or (4) 
        of section 50(b) and which is not subject to a lease, the 
        person who sold such vehicle to the person or entity using such 
        vehicle shall be treated as the taxpayer that placed such 
        vehicle in service, but only if such person clearly discloses 
        to such person or entity in a document the amount of any credit 
        allowable under subsection (a) with respect to such vehicle.
    ``(e) VIN Number Requirement.--No credit shall be determined under 
subsection (a) with respect to any vehicle unless the taxpayer includes 
the vehicle identification number of such vehicle on the return of tax 
for the taxable year.
    ``(f) Termination.--No credit shall be determined under this 
section with respect to any vehicle acquired after December 31, 
2031.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 38(b) is amended by striking paragraph (30) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(30) the qualified commercial electric vehicle credit 
        determined under section 45Y,''.
            (2) Section 6213(g)(2), as amended by the preceding 
        provisions of this Act, is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (T), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end,
                    (B) in subparagraph (U), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``, and'', and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(V) an omission of a correct vehicle 
                identification number required under section 45Y(e) 
                (relating to commercial electric vehicle credit) to be 
                included on a return.''.
            (3) The table of sections for subpart D of part IV of 
        subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new item:

``Sec. 45Y. Qualified commercial electric vehicle credit.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to vehicles acquired after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 136404. QUALIFIED FUEL CELL MOTOR VEHICLES.

    (a) In General.--Section 30B(k)(1) is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2021'' and inserting ``December 31, 2031''.
    (b) New Qualified Fuel Cell Motor Vehicle.--Section 30B(b) is 
amended by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (D), by striking 
the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and inserting ``, and'', and 
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(F) which is not property of a character subject 
                to an allowance for depreciation.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to property placed in service after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 136405. ALTERNATIVE FUEL REFUELING PROPERTY CREDIT.

    (a) In General.--Section 30C(g) is amended by striking ``December 
31, 2021'' and inserting ``December 31, 2031''.
    (b) Additional Credit for Certain Electric Charging Property.--
            (1) In general.--Section 30C(a) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``equal to 30 percent'' and 
                inserting the following: ``equal to the sum of--
            ``(1) 30 percent'',
                    (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                ``, plus'', and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(2) 20 percent of so much of such cost as exceeds the 
        limitation under subsection (b)(1) that does not exceed the 
        amount of cost attributable to qualified alternative vehicle 
        refueling property (determined without regard to subsection 
        (c)(1) and as if only electricity, and fuel at least 85 percent 
        of the volume of which consists of hydrogen, were treated as 
        clean-burning fuels for purposes of section 179A(d)) which--
                    ``(A) is intended for general public use with no 
                associated fee or payment arrangement,
                    ``(B) is intended for general public use and 
                accepts payment via a credit card reader, including a 
                credit card reader that uses contactless technology, or
                    ``(C) is intended for use exclusively by fleets of 
                commercial or governmental vehicles.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 30C(b) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``The credit allowed under 
                subsection (a)'' and inserting ``The amount of cost 
                taken into account under subsection (a)(1)'',
                    (B) by striking ``$30,000'' and inserting 
                ``$100,000'', and
                    (C) by striking ``$1,000'' and inserting 
                ``$3,333.33''.
            (3) Bidirectional charging equipment included as qualified 
        alternative fuel vehicle refueling property.--Section 30C(c) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``For purposes of this section, the 
                term'' and inserting ``For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term'', and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(2) Bidirectional charging equipment.--Property shall not 
        fail to be treated as qualified alternative vehicle refueling 
        property solely because such property--
                    ``(A) is capable of charging the battery of a motor 
                vehicle propelled by electricity, and
                    ``(B) allows discharging electricity from such 
                battery to an electric load external to such motor 
                vehicle.''.
    (c) Certain Electric Charging Stations Included as Qualified 
Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property.--Section 30C is amended by 
redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (g) and (h), 
respectively, and by inserting after subsection (e) the following:
    ``(f) Special Rule for Electric Charging Stations for Certain 
Vehicles With 2 or 3 Wheels.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `qualified alternative fuel 
        vehicle refueling property' includes any property described in 
        subsection (c) for the recharging of a motor vehicle described 
        in paragraph (2) that is propelled by electricity, but only if 
        the property--
                    ``(A) meets the requirements of subsection (a)(2), 
                and
                    ``(B) is of a character subject to depreciation.
            ``(2) Motor vehicle.--A motor vehicle is described in this 
        paragraph if the motor vehicle--
                    ``(A) is manufactured primarily for use on public 
                streets, roads, or highways (not including a vehicle 
                operated exclusively on a rail or rails), and
                    ``(B) has at least 2, but not more than 3, 
                wheels.''.
    (d) Wage and Apprenticeship Requirements.--Section 30C, as amended 
by this section, is further amended by redesignating subsections (g) 
and (h) as subsections (h) and (i) and by inserting after subsection 
(f) the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Wage and Apprenticeship Requirements.--
            ``(1) Base credit amount and increased credit amount.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of any qualified 
                alternative fuel vehicle refueling property which does 
                not satisfy the requirements of subparagraph (B), the 
                amount of the credit determined under subsection (a) 
                shall be 20 percent of such amount (determined without 
                regard to this sentence).
                    ``(B) Increased credit for certain qualified 
                alternative fuel vehicle refueling property meeting 
                project requirements.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In the case of any 
                        qualified alternative fuel vehicle refueling 
                        property which meets the project requirements 
                        of this subparagraph, subparagraph (A) shall 
                        not apply.
                            ``(ii) Project requirements.--A project 
                        meets the requirements of this subparagraph if 
                        it is one of the following:
                                    ``(I) A project which commences 
                                construction prior to the date of the 
                                enactment of this paragraph.
                                    ``(II) A project which satisfies 
                                the requirements of paragraphs (2) and 
                                (3).
            ``(2) Prevailing wage requirements.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The requirements described in 
                this subparagraph with respect to any qualified 
                alternative fuel vehicle refueling property are that 
                the taxpayer shall ensure that any laborers and 
                mechanics employed by contractors and subcontractors in 
                the construction of such property shall be paid wages 
                at rates not less than the prevailing rates for 
                construction, alteration, or repair of a similar 
                character in the locality as most recently determined 
                by the Secretary of Labor, in accordance with 
                subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, United States 
                Code.
                    ``(B) Correction and penalty related to failure to 
                satisfy wage requirements.--In the case of any taxpayer 
                which fails to satisfy the requirement under 
                subparagraph (A) with respect to such qualified 
                alternative fuel vehicle refueling property, rules 
                similar to the rules of section 45(b)(8)(B) shall apply 
                for purposes of this paragraph.
            ``(3) Apprenticeship requirements.--The requirements 
        described in this subparagraph with respect to the construction 
        of any qualified alternative fuel vehicle refueling property 
        are as follows:
                    ``(A) Labor hours.--
                            ``(i) Percentage of total labor hours.--All 
                        contractors and subcontractors engaged in the 
                        performance of construction on any project 
                        shall, subject to subparagraph (B), ensure that 
                        not less than the applicable percentage of the 
                        total labor hours of such work be performed by 
                        qualified apprentices.
                            ``(ii) Applicable percentage.--For purposes 
                        of paragraph (1), the applicable percentage 
                        shall be--
                                    ``(I) in the case of any applicable 
                                project the construction of which 
                                begins before January 1, 2023, 5 
                                percent,
                                    ``(II) in the case of any 
                                applicable project the construction of 
                                which begins after December 31, 2022, 
                                and before January 1, 2024, 10 percent, 
                                and
                                    ``(III) in the case of any 
                                applicable project the construction of 
                                which begins after December 31, 2023, 
                                15 percent.
                    ``(B) Apprentice to journeyworker ratio.--The 
                requirement under subparagraph (A)(i) shall be subject 
                to any applicable requirements for apprentice-to-
                journeyworker ratios of the Department of Labor or the 
                applicable State apprenticeship agency.
                    ``(C) Participation.--Each contractor and 
                subcontractor who employs 4 or more individuals to 
                perform construction, alteration, or repair work on an 
                applicable project shall employ 1 or more qualified 
                apprentices to perform such work.
                    ``(D) Exception.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Notwithstanding any 
                        other provision of this paragraph, this 
                        paragraph shall not apply in the case of a 
                        taxpayer who--
                                    ``(I) demonstrates a lack of 
                                availability of qualified apprentices 
                                in the geographic area of the 
                                construction, alteration, or repair 
                                work, and
                                    ``(II) makes a good faith effort to 
                                comply with the requirements of this 
                                paragraph.
                            ``(ii) Good faith effort.--For purposes of 
                        clause (i), a taxpayer shall be deemed to have 
                        satisfied the requirements under such paragraph 
                        with respect to an applicable project if such 
                        taxpayer has requested qualified apprentices 
                        from a registered apprenticeship program, as 
                        defined in section 3131(e)(3)(B), and such 
                        request has been denied, provided that such 
                        denial is not the result of a refusal by the 
                        contractors or subcontractors engaged in the 
                        performance of construction, alteration, or 
                        repair work on such applicable project to 
                        comply with the established standards and 
                        requirements of such apprenticeship program.
                    ``(E) Definitions.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph--
                            ``(i) Labor hours.--The term `labor hours' 
                        has the meaning given such term in section 
                        45(b)(9)(E)(i).
                            ``(ii) Qualified apprentice.--The term 
                        `qualified apprentice' has the meaning given 
                        such term in section 45(b)(9)(E)(ii).
            ``(4) Regulations and guidance.--The Secretary shall issue 
        such regulations or other guidance as the Secretary determines 
        necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this 
        subsection.''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to property placed in service after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 136406. REINSTATEMENT AND EXPANSION OF EMPLOYER-PROVIDED FRINGE 
              BENEFITS FOR BICYCLE COMMUTING.

    (a) Repeal of Suspension of Exclusion for Qualified Bicycle 
Commuting Benefits.--Section 132(f) is amended by striking paragraph 
(8).
    (b) Expansion of Bicycle Commuting Benefits.--Section 132(f)(5)(F) 
is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(F) Definitions related to bicycle commuting 
                benefits.--
                            ``(i) Qualified bicycle commuting 
                        benefit.--The term `qualified bicycle commuting 
                        benefit' means, with respect to any calendar 
                        year--
                                    ``(I) any employer reimbursement 
                                during the 15-month period beginning 
                                with the first day of such calendar 
                                year for reasonable expenses incurred 
                                by the employee during such calendar 
                                year for the purchase (including 
                                associated finance charges), lease, 
                                rental (including a bikeshare), 
                                improvement, repair, or storage of 
                                qualified commuting property, or
                                    ``(II) the provision by the 
                                employer to the employee during such 
                                calendar year of the use (including a 
                                bikeshare), improvement, repair, or 
                                storage of qualified commuting 
                                property,
                        if the employee regularly uses such qualified 
                        commuting property for travel between the 
                        employee's residence, place of employment, or a 
                        mass transit facility that connects the 
                        employee to their residence or place of 
                        employment.
                            ``(ii) Qualified commuting property.--The 
                        term `qualified commuting property' means--
                                    ``(I) any bicycle (other than a 
                                bicycle equipped with any motor),
                                    ``(II) any electric bicycle which 
                                meets the requirements of section 
                                36E(c)(5),
                                    ``(III) any 2- or 3-wheel scooter 
                                (other than a scooter equipped with any 
                                motor), and
                                    ``(IV) any 2- or 3-wheel scooter 
                                propelled by an electric motor if such 
                                motor does not provide assistance if 
                                the speed of such scooter exceeds 20 
                                miler per hour (or if the speed of such 
                                scooter is not capable of exceeding 20 
                                miles per hour) and the weight of such 
                                scooter does not exceed 100 pounds.
                            ``(iii) Bikeshare.--The term `bikeshare' 
                        means a rental operation at which qualified 
                        commuting property is made available to 
                        customers to pick up and drop off for point-to-
                        point use within a defined geographic area.''.
    (c) Limitation on Exclusion.--Section 132(f)(2)(C) is amended to 
read as follows:
                    ``(C) 30 percent of the dollar amount in effect 
                under subparagraph (B) per month in the case of any 
                qualified bicycle commuting benefit.''.
    (d) No Constructive Receipt.--Section 132(f)(4) is amended by 
striking ``(other than a qualified bicycle commuting reimbursement)''.
    (e) Conforming Amendment.--Section 132(f)(1)(D) is amended by 
striking ``reimbursement'' and inserting ``benefit''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 136407. CREDIT FOR CERTAIN NEW ELECTRIC BICYCLES.

    (a) In General.--Subpart C of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, 
as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by 
inserting after section 36D the following new section:

``SEC. 36E. ELECTRIC BICYCLES.

    ``(a) Allowance of Credit.--There shall be allowed as a credit 
against the tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable year an amount 
equal to 15 percent of the cost of each qualified electric bicycle 
placed in service by the taxpayer during such taxable year.
    ``(b) Limitations.--
            ``(1) Limitation on cost per electric bicycle taken into 
        account.--The amount taken into account under subsection (a) as 
        the cost of any qualified electric bicycle shall not exceed 
        $5,000.
            ``(2) Bicycle limitation with respect to credit.--
                    ``(A) Limitation on number of personal-use 
                bicycles.--In the case of any taxpayer for any taxable 
                year, the number of personal-use bicycles taken into 
                account under subsection (a) shall not exceed the 
                excess (if any) of--
                            ``(i) 1 (2 in the case of a joint return), 
                        reduced by
                            ``(ii) the aggregate number of bicycles 
                        taken into account by the taxpayer under 
                        subsection (a) for the 2 preceding taxable 
                        years.
                    ``(B) Phaseout based on modified adjusted gross 
                income.--So much of the credit allowed under subsection 
                (a) to any taxpayer for any taxable year as would (but 
                for this subparagraph) be treated under subsection 
                (c)(2) as a credit allowable under subpart C shall be 
                reduced by $200 for each $1,000 (or fraction thereof) 
                by which the taxpayer's modified adjusted gross income 
                exceeds--
                            ``(i) $150,000 in the case of a joint 
                        return or a surviving spouse (as defined in 
                        section 2(a)),
                            ``(ii) $112,500 in the case of a head of 
                        household (as defined in section 2(b)), and
                            ``(iii) $75,000 in the case of a taxpayer 
                        not described in clause (i) or (ii).
                    ``(C) Modified adjusted gross income.--For purposes 
                of subparagraph (B), the term `modified adjusted gross 
                income' means adjusted gross income increased by any 
                amount excluded from gross income under section 911, 
                931, or 933.
                    ``(D) Special rule for determination of modified 
                adjusted gross income.--The modified adjusted gross 
                income of the taxpayer that is taken into account for 
                purposes of this paragraph shall be the lesser of--
                            ``(i) the modified adjusted gross income 
                        for the taxable year in which the credit is 
                        claimed, or
                            ``(ii) the modified adjusted gross income 
                        for the immediately preceding taxable year.
    ``(c) Qualified Electric Bicycle.--For purposes of this section, 
the term `qualified electric bicycle' means a bicycle--
            ``(1) the original use of which commences with the 
        taxpayer,
            ``(2) which is acquired for use by the taxpayer and not for 
        resale,
            ``(3) which is made by a qualified manufacturer and is 
        labeled with the qualified vehicle identification number 
        assigned to such bicycle by such manufacturer,
            ``(4) with respect to which the aggregate amount paid for 
        such acquisition does not exceed $8,000, and
            ``(5) which is equipped with--
                    ``(A) fully operable pedals,
                    ``(B) a saddle or seat for the rider, and
                    ``(C) an electric motor of less than 750 watts 
                which is designed to provided assistance in propelling 
                the bicycle and--
                            ``(i) does not provide such assistance if 
                        the bicycle is moving in excess of 20 miler per 
                        hour, or
                            ``(ii) if such motor only provides such 
                        assistance when the rider is pedaling, does not 
                        provide such assistance if the bicycle is 
                        moving in excess of 28 miles per hour.
    ``(d) VIN Number Requirement.--
            ``(1) In general.--No credit shall be allowed under 
        subsection (a) with respect to any qualified electric bicycle 
        unless the taxpayer includes the qualified vehicle 
        identification number of such bicycle on the return of tax for 
        the taxable year.
            ``(2) Qualified vehicle identification number.--For 
        purposes of this section, the term `qualified vehicle 
        identification number' means, with respect to any bicycle, the 
        vehicle identification number assigned to such bicycle by a 
        qualified manufacturer pursuant to the methodology referred to 
        in paragraph (3).
            ``(3) Qualified manufacturer.--For purposes of this 
        section, the term `qualified manufacturer' means any 
        manufacturer of qualified electric bicycles which enters into 
        an agreement with the Secretary which provides that such 
        manufacturer will--
                    ``(A) assign a vehicle identification number to 
                each qualified electric bicycle produced by such 
                manufacturer utilizing a methodology that will ensure 
                that such number (including any alphanumeric) is unique 
                to such bicycle (by utilizing numbers or letters which 
                are unique to such manufacturer or by such other method 
                as the Secretary may provide),
                    ``(B) label such bicycle with such number in such 
                manner as the Secretary may provide, and
                    ``(C) make periodic written reports to the 
                Secretary (at such times and in such manner as the 
                Secretary may provide) of the vehicle identification 
                numbers so assigned and including such information as 
                the Secretary may require with respect to the qualified 
                electric bicycle to which such number was so assigned.
    ``(e) Special Rules.--
            ``(1) Basis reduction.--For purposes of this subtitle, the 
        basis of any property for which a credit is allowable under 
        subsection (a) shall be reduced by the amount of such credit so 
        allowed (determined without regard to subsection (c)).
            ``(2) No double benefit.--The amount of any deduction or 
        other credit allowable under this chapter for a qualified 
        electric bicycle for which a credit is allowable under 
        subsection (a) shall be reduced by the amount of credit allowed 
        under such subsection for such vehicle (determined without 
        regard to subsection (c)).
            ``(3) Property used outside united states not qualified.--
        No credit shall be allowable under subsection (a) with respect 
        to any property referred to in section 50(b)(1).
            ``(4) Recapture.--The Secretary shall, by regulations, 
        provide for recapturing the benefit of any credit allowable 
        under subsection (a) with respect to any property which ceases 
        to be property eligible for such credit.
            ``(5) Election not to take credit.--No credit shall be 
        allowed under subsection (a) for any bicycle if the taxpayer 
        elects to not have this section apply to such bicycle.
    ``(f) Treatment of Certain Possessions.--
            ``(1) Payments to possessions with mirror code tax 
        systems.--The Secretary shall pay to each possession of the 
        United States which has a mirror code tax system amounts equal 
        to the loss (if any) to that possession by reason of the 
        application of the provisions of this section (determined 
        without regard to this subsection). Such amounts shall be 
        determined by the Secretary based on information provided by 
        the government of the respective possession.
            ``(2) Payments to other possessions.--The Secretary shall 
        pay to each possession of the United States which does not have 
        a mirror code tax system amounts estimated by the Secretary as 
        being equal to the aggregate benefits (if any) that would have 
        been provided to residents of such possession by reason of the 
        provisions of this section if a mirror code tax system had been 
        in effect in such possession. The preceding sentence shall not 
        apply unless the respective possession has a plan which has 
        been approved by the Secretary under which such possession will 
        promptly distribute such payments to its residents.
            ``(3) Mirror code tax system; treatment of payments.--Rules 
        similar to the rules of paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 21(h) 
        shall apply for purposes of this section.
    ``(g) Termination.--This section shall not apply to bicycles placed 
in service after December 31, 2031.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 38(b) is amended by striking ``plus'' at the 
        end of paragraph (39), by striking the period at the end of 
        paragraph (40) and inserting ``, plus'', and by adding at the 
        end the following new paragraph:
            ``(41) the portion of the electric bicycles credit to which 
        section 36E(c)(1) applies.''.
            (2) Section 1016(a) is amended by striking ``and'' at the 
        end of paragraph (37), by striking the period at the end of 
        paragraph (38) and inserting ``, and'', and by adding at the 
        end the following new paragraph:
            ``(39) to the extent provided in section 36E(f)(1).''.
            (3) Section 6211(b)(4)(A) of such Code is amended by 
        inserting ``36E by reason of subsection (c)(2) thereof,'' 
        before ``32,''.
            (4) Section 6213(g)(2), as amended by the preceding 
        provisions of this Act, is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (U), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end,
                    (B) in subparagraph (V), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``, and'', and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(W) an omission of a correct vehicle 
                identification number required under section 36E(e) 
                (relating to electric bicycles credit) to be included 
                on a return.''.
            (5) Section 6501(m) is amended by inserting ``36E(f)(4),'' 
        after ``35(g)(11),''.
            (6) Section 1324(b)(2) of title 31, United States Code, is 
        amended by inserting ``36E,'' after ``36B,''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subpart B of 
part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by adding at the end 
the following new item:

``Sec. 36E. Electric bicycles.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to property placed in service after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, in taxable years ending after such date.
