---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# PART 7--ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEWS

SEC. 30471. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $200,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2031 (except that no amounts may be 
disbursed after September 30, 2031), to provide for more efficient and 
more effective environmental reviews under the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 through the hiring and training of additional 
personnel, the development of programmatic assessments or templates, 
the procurement of technical or scientific services, the development of 
data or technology systems, stakeholder and community engagement, and 
the purchase of new equipment.

SEC. 30472. FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for fiscal year 2022, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2031 (except that no amounts 
may be disbursed after September 30, 2031), to provide for more 
efficient and more effective environmental reviews under the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 through the hiring and training of 
additional personnel, the development of programmatic assessments or 
templates, the procurement of technical or scientific services, the 
development of data or technology systems, stakeholder and community 
engagement, and the purchase of new equipment.
