---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# PART 8 - OTHER ENERGY MATTERS

SEC. 30481. FEDERAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY FUND.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$17,500,000,000, to remain available until expended (except that no 
funds shall be disbursed after September 30, 2031), to provide grants 
to agencies to assist them in meeting the requirements of section 543 
of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 8253) or to 
assist agencies in reducing the carbon emissions of new or existing 
Federal buildings and Federal fleets.
    (b) Use of Funds.--The Secretary shall use the funds made available 
pursuant to subsection (a) to provide grants to agencies pursuant to 
section 546(b) of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (42 
U.S.C. 8256(b)), and to establish a program to provide competitive 
grants to agencies, to carry out projects for onsite or offsite 
measures that--
            (1) are applied to or serve a Federal building or Federal 
        fleet; and
            (2) involve energy conservation, cogeneration facilities, 
        renewable energy sources, low carbon materials, improvements in 
        operations and maintenance efficiencies, retrofit activities, 
        automotive supply equipment, building electrification, energy 
        storage devices, energy consuming devices and required support 
        structures, or carbon-pollution free electricity.
    (c) Considerations.--In providing grants under subsection (b), the 
Secretary may consider--
            (1) the cost-effectiveness of the project;
            (2) the extent to which a project promotes the integration 
        of clean energy, carbon pollution-free electricity, low carbon 
        materials, automotive supply equipment, and such other onsite 
        or offsite measures as the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate;
            (3) the amount of energy and cost savings anticipated to 
        the Federal Government;
            (4) the amount of funding committed to the project by the 
        agency requesting the grant;
            (5) the extent that a proposal leverages financing from 
        other non-Federal sources; and
            (6) any other factor which the Secretary determines is in 
        furtherance of this section.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Automotive supply equipment.--The term ``automotive 
        supply equipment'' means any conductors, including ungrounded, 
        grounded, and equipment grounding conductors, electric vehicle 
        connectors, attachment plugs, and all other fittings, devices, 
        power outlets, electrical equipment, or apparatuses installed 
        specifically for the purpose of delivering energy to an 
        electric vehicle or to a battery intended to be used in an 
        electric vehicle.
            (2) Low carbon material.--The term ``low carbon material'' 
        means any material for which the quantity of greenhouse gases 
        (measured in kilograms of carbon dioxide equivalent) emitted to 
        the atmosphere by the manufacture, transportation, 
        installation, maintenance, and disposal of the material is 
        significantly lower than such quantity for another, similar 
        material, as measured and reported in an environmental product 
        declaration.

SEC. 30482. ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND CONSERVATION BLOCK GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2031 (except that no funds 
shall be disbursed after September 30, 2031), to carry out the Energy 
Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Program established under 
section 542(a) of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 
U.S.C. 17152(a)), of which--
            (1) $2,500,000,000 shall be distributed in accordance with 
        section 543 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 17153); and
            (2) $2,5000,000,000 shall be awarded to eligible entities 
        on a competitive basis.
    (b) Program.--In carrying out subsection (a), in addition to 
providing assistance described in section 542(b)(1) of the Energy 
Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17152(b)(1)), the 
Secretary may also provide assistance to eligible entities for 
implementing strategies to reduce fossil fuel emissions created as a 
result of activities within the jurisdictions of eligible entities in a 
manner that diversifies energy supplies, including by facilitating and 
promoting the use of alternative fuels.
    (c) Use of Funds.--In carrying out subsection (a), for purposes of 
section 544 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 
U.S.C. 17154), the Secretary may also consider to be activities that 
achieve the purposes of the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block 
Grant Program--
            (1) the deployment of energy distribution technologies that 
        significantly increase energy efficiency or expand access to 
        alternative fuels, including distributed resources, district 
        heating and cooling systems, and infrastructure for delivering 
        alternative fuels; and
            (2) programs for financing energy efficiency, renewable 
        energy, and zero-emission transportation (and associated 
        infrastructure) capital investments, projects, and programs--
                    (A) which may include loan programs and performance 
                contracting programs for leveraging of additional 
                public and private sector funds, and programs that 
                allow rebates, grants, or other incentives for the 
                purchase and installation of energy efficiency, 
                renewable energy, and zero-emission transportation (and 
                associated infrastructure) measures; or
                    (B) which may be used or implemented in connection 
                with buildings owned and operated by a State, a 
                political subdivision of a State, an agency or 
                instrumentality of a State, or an organization exempt 
                from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal 
                Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)).
    (d) Competitive Grants.--In carrying out subsection (a), for 
purposes of section 546(c)(2) of the Energy Independence and Security 
Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17156(c)(2)), the Secretary may give priority to 
units of local government that plan to carry out projects to expand the 
use of alternative fuels that would result in significant energy 
efficiency improvements or reductions in fossil fuel use.
    (e) Administrative Expenses.--Of the amount made available under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall reserve 10 percent for 
administrative expenses to carry out this section.
    (f) Technical Amendments.--Section 543 of the Energy Independence 
and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17153) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c), by striking ``subsection (a)(2)'' 
        and inserting ``subsection (a)(3)''; and
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``subsection (a)(3)'' 
        and inserting ``subsection (a)(4)''.

SEC. 30483. LOW-INCOME SOLAR.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$2,500,000,000, to remain available until expended (except that no 
funds shall be disbursed after September 30, 2031), to carry out this 
section.
    (b) In General.--The Secretary shall use funds appropriated by 
subsection (a) to provide financial assistance to eligible entities 
to--
            (1) carry out eligible planning projects; or
            (2) carry out eligible installation projects.
    (c) Applications.--
            (1) In general.--To be eligible to receive assistance under 
        this section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary 
        an application at such time, in such manner, and containing 
        such information as the Secretary may require.
            (2) Inclusion for installation assistance.--For an eligible 
        entity to receive assistance for an eligible installation 
        project, the Secretary shall require the eligible entity to 
        include in an application under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) information that demonstrates that the eligible 
                entity has obtained, or has the capacity to obtain, 
                necessary permits, subscribers, access to an 
                installation site, and any other items or agreements 
                necessary to complete the installation of the 
                applicable covered facility;
                    (B) information that demonstrates that the covered 
                facility installed using such assistance will comply 
                with local building and safety codes and standards;
                    (C) a description of the mechanism through which 
                financial benefits will be distributed to beneficiaries 
                or subscribers; and
                    (D) an estimate of the anticipated financial 
                benefit for beneficiaries or subscribers.
            (3) Consideration of planning projects.--The Secretary may 
        consider the completion of an eligible planning project 
        pursuant to subsection (b)(1) by the eligible entity to be 
        sufficient to demonstrate the ability of the eligible entity to 
        meet the requirements of paragraph (2)(A).
    (d) Selection.--
            (1) In general.--In selecting eligible projects to receive 
        assistance under this section, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) prioritize--
                            (i) eligible installation projects that 
                        will result in the most financial benefit for 
                        beneficiaries, as determined by the Secretary;
                            (ii) eligible installation projects that 
                        will result in development of covered 
                        facilities in underserved areas; and
                            (iii) eligible projects that include 
                        apprenticeship, job training, or community 
                        participation as part of their application; and
                    (B) ensure that such assistance is provided in a 
                manner that results in eligible projects being carried 
                out on a geographically diverse basis within and among 
                States.
            (2) Determination of financial benefit.--In determining the 
        amount of financial benefit for low-income households of an 
        eligible installation project, the Secretary shall ensure that 
        all calculations for estimated household energy savings are 
        based solely on electricity offsets from the applicable covered 
        facility and use formulas established by the State or local 
        government with jurisdiction over the applicable covered 
        facility for verifiable household energy savings estimates that 
        accrue to low-income households.
    (e) Assistance.--
            (1) Form.--The Secretary may provide assistance under this 
        section in the form of a grant, rebate, or low-interest loan.
            (2) Multiple projects for same facility.--
                    (A) In general.--An eligible entity may apply for 
                assistance under this section for an eligible planning 
                project and an eligible installation project for the 
                same covered facility.
                    (B) Separate selections.--Selection by the 
                Secretary for assistance under this section of an 
                eligible planning project does not require the 
                Secretary to select for assistance under this section 
                an eligible installation project for the same covered 
                facility.
    (f) Use of Assistance.--
            (1) Eligible planning projects.--An eligible entity 
        receiving assistance for an eligible planning project under 
        this section may use such assistance to pay the costs of pre-
        installation activities associated with an applicable covered 
        facility, including--
                    (A) feasibility studies;
                    (B) permitting;
                    (C) site assessment;
                    (D) identification of beneficiaries or subscribers; 
                or
                    (E) such other costs determined by the Secretary to 
                be appropriate.
            (2) Eligible installation projects.--An eligible entity 
        receiving assistance for an eligible installation project under 
        this section may use such assistance to pay the costs of--
                    (A) installation and operation of a covered 
                facility, including costs associated with materials, 
                permitting, labor, or site preparation;
                    (B) storage technology sited at a covered facility;
                    (C) interconnection service expenses;
                    (D) offsetting the cost of a subscription for a 
                covered facility described in subsection (h)(4)(A) for 
                subscribers that are members of a low-income household; 
                or
                    (E) such other costs determined by the Secretary to 
                be appropriate.
    (g) Use of Funds.--Of the funds appropriated by this section, the 
Secretary shall use not less than 85 percent to provide assistance for 
eligible installation projects.
    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Beneficiary.--The term ``beneficiary'' means a low-
        income household that receives a financial benefit from the 
        installation and operation of a covered facility.
            (2) Community solar facility.--The term ``community solar 
        facility'' means a solar generating facility that--
                    (A) has multiple subscribers that receive financial 
                benefits that are directly attributable to the 
                facility; and
                    (B) has a nameplate rating of 5 megawatts AC or 
                less.
            (3) Community solar subscription.--The term ``community 
        solar subscription'' means a share in the capacity, or a 
        proportional interest in the electricity generation, of a 
        community solar facility.
            (4) Covered facility.--The term ``covered facility'' 
        means--
                    (A) a community solar facility at least 50 percent 
                of the capacity of which is reserved for low-income 
                households;
                    (B) a solar generating facility located at a 
                residence of a low-income household; or
                    (C) a solar generating facility located at a multi-
                family affordable housing complex.
            (5) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a nonprofit organization that provides services 
                to low-income households or multi-family affordable 
                housing complexes;
                    (B) a developer, owner, or operator of a covered 
                facility;
                    (C) a State, or political subdivision thereof;
                    (D) an Indian Tribe, tribally owned electric 
                utility, or tribal energy development organization;
                    (E) a Native Hawaiian community-based organization;
                    (F) any other national or regional entity that has 
                experience developing or installing solar generating 
                facilities for low-income households that maximize 
                financial benefits to those households; and
                    (G) an electric cooperative or a municipality that 
                is an electric utility (as such terms are defined in 
                section 3 of the Federal Power Act).
            (6) Eligible installation project.--The term ``eligible 
        installation project'' means a project to install and operate a 
        covered facility.
            (7) Eligible planning project.--The term ``eligible 
        planning project'' means a project to carry out pre-
        installation activities for the development of a covered 
        facility.
            (8) Eligible project.--The term ``eligible project'' 
        means--
                    (A) an eligible planning project; or
                    (B) an eligible installation project.
            (9) Feasibility study.--The term ``feasibility study'' 
        means a study or assessment that determines the feasibility of 
        a specific solar generating facility, including a customer 
        interest assessment and a siting assessment, as determined by 
        the Secretary.
            (10) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' means any 
        Indian Tribe, band, nation, Tribal Organization, or other 
        organized group or community, including any Alaska Native 
        village, Regional Corporation, or Village Corporation, that is 
        recognized as eligible for the special programs and services 
        provided by the United States to Indians because of their 
        status as Indians.
            (11) Interconnection service.--The term ``interconnection 
        service'' has the meaning given such term in section 111(d)(15) 
        of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 
        U.S.C. 2621(d)(15)).
            (12) Low-income household.--The term ``low-income 
        household'' means a household with an income that--
                    (A) is at or below 80 percent of the area median 
                income, or 200 percent of the Federal poverty level, 
                whichever is higher, except that the Secretary may 
                establish a higher level if the Secretary determines 
                that such a higher level is necessary to carry out the 
                purposes of this section; or
                    (B) if the State in which the household is located 
                elects, is the basis for eligibility for assistance 
                under the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 
                (42 U.S.C. 8621 et seq.), provided that such basis is 
                at least 200 percent of the Federal poverty level.
            (13) Multi-family affordable housing complex.--The term 
        ``multi-family affordable housing complex'' means any federally 
        subsidized affordable housing complex in which at least 50 
        percent of the units are reserved for low-income households.
            (14) Native hawaiian community-based organization.--The 
        term ``Native Hawaiian community-based organization'' means any 
        organization that is composed primarily of Native Hawaiians 
        from a specific community and that assists in the social, 
        cultural, and educational development of Native Hawaiians in 
        that community.
            (15) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (16) Solar generating facility.--The term ``solar 
        generating facility'' means--
                    (A) a generator that creates electricity from 
                photons; and
                    (B) the accompanying hardware enabling that 
                electricity to flow--
                            (i) onto the electric grid;
                            (ii) into a facility or structure; or
                            (iii) into an energy storage device.
            (17) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the 50 
        States, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of 
        Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, 
        and American Samoa.
            (18) Subscriber.--The term ``subscriber'' means a person 
        who--
                    (A) owns a community solar subscription, or an 
                equivalent unit or share of the capacity or generation 
                of a community solar facility; or
                    (B) is a member of a low-income household that 
                financially benefits from a community solar facility, 
                even if the person does not own a community solar 
                subscription for the facility.
            (19) Underserved area.--The term ``underserved area'' 
        means--
                    (A) a geographical area with low or no photovoltaic 
                solar deployment, as determined by the Secretary;
                    (B) a geographical area that has low or no access 
                to electricity, as determined by the Secretary;
                    (C) a geographical area with a high energy burden, 
                as determined by the Secretary; or
                    (D) trust land, as defined in section 3765 of title 
                38, United States Code.

SEC. 30484. OVERSIGHT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2031 (except that no funds shall be 
disbursed after September 30, 2031), for oversight by the Department of 
Energy Office of Inspector General of the Department of Energy 
activities for which funding is appropriated in this subtitle.
