---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# PART 6 - ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION

SEC. 30461. TRANSMISSION LINE AND INTERTIE GRANTS AND LOANS.

    (a) Appropriation.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for 
        fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, $8,000,000,000, to remain available 
        until September 30, 2031 (except that no funds shall be 
        disbursed after September 30, 2031), for purposes of providing 
        grants and direct loans under subsection (b), and for 
        administrative expenses associated with carrying out this 
        section: Provided, That none of such loan authority made 
        available by this section shall be available for loans for any 
        projects where funds, personnel, or property (tangible or 
        intangible) of any Federal agency, instrumentality, personnel, 
        or affiliated entity are expected to be used (directly or 
        indirectly) through acquisitions, contracts, demonstrations, 
        exchanges, grants, incentives, leases, procurements, sales, 
        other transaction authority, or other arrangements to support 
        the project or to obtain goods or services from the project: 
        Provided further, That the previous proviso shall not be 
        interpreted as precluding the use of the loan authority 
        provided by this section for commitments to loans for: (1) 
        projects benefitting from otherwise allowable Federal tax 
        benefits; (2) projects benefitting from being located on 
        Federal land pursuant to a lease or right-of-way agreement for 
        which all consideration for all uses is: (A) paid exclusively 
        in cash; (B) deposited in the Treasury as offsetting receipts; 
        and (C) equal to the fair market value as determined by the 
        head of the relevant Federal agency; (3) projects benefitting 
        from Federal insurance programs; or (4) electric generation 
        projects using transmission facilities owned or operated by a 
        Federal Power Marketing Administration or the Tennessee Valley 
        Authority that have been authorized, approved, and financed 
        independent of the project receiving the guarantee: Provided 
        further, That none of the loan authority made available by this 
        section shall be available for any project unless the Director 
        of the Office of Management and Budget has certified in advance 
        in writing that the loan and the project comply with the 
        provisions under this section.
            (2) Limit.--Not more than $1,000,000,000 of the amount 
        appropriated under paragraph (1) may be used to pay for the 
        costs of providing direct loans under subsection (b).
    (b) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (c), the 
Secretary of Energy may provide grants and direct loans to eligible 
entities to construct new, or make upgrades to existing, eligible 
transmission lines or eligible interties, including the related 
facilities thereof, if the Secretary of Energy determines that such 
construction or upgrade would support--
            (1) a more robust and resilient electric grid; and
            (2) the integration of electricity from a clean energy 
        facility into the electric grid.
    (c) Other Requirements.--
            (1) Interest rates.--The Secretary of Energy shall 
        determine the rate of interest to charge on direct loans 
        provided under subsection (b) by taking into consideration 
        market yields on outstanding marketable obligations of the 
        United States of comparable maturities as of the date the loan 
        is disbursed.
            (2) Terms and conditions.--In providing direct loans under 
        subsection (b), the Secretary may require such terms and 
        conditions the Secretary determines appropriate.
            (3) Recovery of costs for grants.--A grant provided under 
        this section may not be used to construct new, or make upgrades 
        to existing, eligible transmission lines or eligible interties 
        if the costs for such construction or upgrade are approved for 
        recovery through a Transmission Organization (as defined in 
        section 3 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796)).
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Clean energy facility.--The term ``clean energy 
        facility'' means any electric generating unit that does not 
        emit carbon dioxide.
            (2) Direct loan.--The term ``direct loan'' means a 
        disbursement of funds by the Government to a non-Federal 
        borrower under a contract that requires the repayment of such 
        funds with or without interest. The term includes the purchase 
        of, or participation in, a loan made by another lender and 
        financing arrangements that defer payment for more than 90 
        days, including the sale of a government asset on credit terms.
            (3) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means a 
        non-Federal entity.
            (4) Eligible intertie.--The term ``eligible intertie'' 
        means--
                    (A) any interties across the seam between the 
                Western Interconnection and the Eastern 
                Interconnection;
                    (B) the Pacific Northwest-Pacific Southwest 
                Intertie;
                    (C) any interties between the Electric Reliability 
                Council of Texas and the Western Interconnection or the 
                Eastern Interconnection; or
                    (D) such other interties that the Secretary 
                determines contribute to--
                            (i) a more robust and resilient electric 
                        grid; and
                            (ii) the integration of electricity from a 
                        clean energy facility into the electric grid.
            (5) Eligible transmission line.--The term ``eligible 
        transmission line'' means an electric power transmission line 
        that--
                    (A) in the case of new construction under 
                subsection (b), has a transmitting capacity of not less 
                than 1,000 megawatts;
                    (B) in the case of an upgrade made under subsection 
                (b), the upgrade to which will increase its 
                transmitting capacity by not less than 500 megawatts; 
                and
                    (C) is capable of transmitting electricity--
                            (i) across any eligible intertie;
                            (ii) from an offshore wind generating 
                        facility; or
                            (iii) along a route, or in a corridor, 
                        determined by the Secretary of Energy to be 
                        necessary to meet interregional or national 
                        electricity transmission needs.

SEC. 30462. GRANTS TO FACILITATE THE SITING OF INTERSTATE ELECTRICITY 
              TRANSMISSION LINES.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$800,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031 (provided no 
funds shall be disbursed after such date), for making grants in 
accordance with this section and for administrative expenses associated 
with carrying out this section.
    (b) Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may make a grant under this 
        section to a siting authority for, with respect to a covered 
        transmission project, any of the following activities:
                    (A) Studies and analyses of the impacts of the 
                covered transmission project, including the 
                environmental, reliability, wildlife, cultural, 
                historical, water, land-use, public health, employment, 
                tax-revenue, market, cost, and rate regulation impacts.
                    (B) Examination of up to 3 alternate siting 
                corridors within which the covered transmission project 
                feasibly could be sited.
                    (C) Hosting and facilitation of negotiations in 
                settlement meetings involving the siting authority, the 
                covered transmission project applicant, and opponents 
                of the covered transmission project, for the purpose of 
                identifying and addressing issues that are preventing 
                approval of the application relating to the siting or 
                permitting of the covered transmission project.
                    (D) Participation by the siting authority in 
                regulatory proceedings or negotiations in another 
                jurisdiction, or under the auspices of a Transmission 
                Organization (as defined in section 3 of the Federal 
                Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796)) that is also considering the 
                siting or permitting of the covered transmission 
                project.
                    (E) Participation by the siting authority in 
                regulatory proceedings at the Federal Energy Regulatory 
                Commission or a State regulatory commission for 
                determining applicable rates and cost allocation for 
                the covered transmission project.
                    (F) Other measures and actions that may improve the 
                chances of, and shorten the time required for, approval 
                by the siting authority of the application relating to 
                the siting or permitting of the covered transmission 
                project, as the Secretary determines appropriate.
            (2) Economic development.--The Secretary may make a grant 
        under this section to a siting authority, or other State, 
        local, or Tribal governmental entity, for economic development 
        activities for communities that may be affected by the 
        construction and operation of a covered transmission project.
    (c) Conditions.--
            (1) Final decision on application.--In order to receive a 
        grant for an activity described in subsection (b)(1), the 
        Secretary shall require a siting authority to agree, in 
        writing, to reach a final decision on the application relating 
        to the siting or permitting of the applicable covered 
        transmission project not later than 2 years after the date on 
        which such grant is provided, unless the Secretary authorizes 
        an extension for good cause.
            (2) Federal share.--The Federal share of the cost of an 
        activity described in subparagraph (D) or (E) of subsection 
        (b)(1) shall not exceed 50 percent.
            (3) Economic development.--The Secretary may only disburse 
        grant funds for economic development activities under 
        subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) to a siting authority upon approval by the 
                siting authority of the applicable covered transmission 
                project; and
                    (B) to any other State, local, or Tribal 
                governmental entity upon commencement of construction 
                of the applicable covered transmission project in the 
                area under the jurisdiction of the entity.
    (d) Returning Funds.--If a siting authority that receives a grant 
for an activity described in subsection (b)(1) fails to use all grant 
funds within 2 years of receipt, the siting authority shall return to 
the Secretary any such unused funds.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered transmission project.--The term ``covered 
        transmission project'' means a high-voltage interstate 
        electricity transmission line--
                    (A) that is proposed to be constructed and to 
                operate at a minimum of 275 kilovolts of either 
                alternating-current or direct-current electric energy 
                by an entity; and
                    (B) for which such entity has applied, or informed 
                a siting authority of such entity's intent to apply, 
                for regulatory approval.
            (2) Siting authority.--The term ``siting authority'' means 
        a State, local, or Tribal governmental entity with authority to 
        make a final determination regarding the siting, permitting, or 
        regulatory status of a covered transmission project that is 
        proposed to be located in an area under the jurisdiction of the 
        entity.

SEC. 30463. ORGANIZED WHOLESALE ELECTRICITY MARKET TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 
              GRANTS.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, to 
remain available until fiscal year 2031 (except that no funds shall be 
disbursed after September 30, 2031), for purposes of providing 
technical assistance and grants under subsection (b).
    (b) Technical Assistance and Grants.--The Secretary shall use 
amounts made available under subsection (a) to--
            (1) provide grants to States to pay for--
                    (A) technical assistance for any of the activities 
                described in subsection (c); or
                    (B) the procurement of data or technology systems 
                related to any of the activities described in 
                subsection (c); and
            (2) provide technical assistance for the activities 
        described in subsection (c).
    (c) Activities.--The activities described in this subsection are--
            (1) forming, expanding, or improving an organized wholesale 
        electricity market, including with respect to--
                    (A) market governance assistance;
                    (B) planning and policy assistance; and
                    (C) regulatory development assistance;
            (2) aligning the policies of an organized wholesale 
        electricity market with relevant State policies; and
            (3) evaluating the economic, operational, reliability, 
        environmental, and other benefits of organized wholesale 
        electricity markets.
    (d) Applications.--
            (1) In general.--To apply for technical assistance or a 
        grant provided under this section, a State shall submit to the 
        Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing such information as the Secretary may require.
            (2) Grants.--An application for a grant submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall certify how the State will use the grant in 
        accordance with subsection (b).
    (e) Priority.--In evaluating applications submitted under 
subsection (c), the Secretary shall give priority to applications that 
are submitted by more than one State.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Independent system operator; regional transmission 
        organization.--The terms ``Independent System Operator'' and 
        ``Regional Transmission Organization'' have the meanings given 
        such terms in section 3 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 
        796).
            (2) Organized wholesale electricity market.--The term 
        ``organized wholesale electricity market'' means an Independent 
        System Operator or a Regional Transmission Organization.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means any State of the 
        United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
        Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Guam.

SEC. 30464. INTERREGIONAL AND OFFSHORE WIND ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION 
              PLANNING, MODELING, AND ANALYSIS.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031 (except that 
no funds shall be disbursed after such date), to carry out this 
section.
    (b) Use of Funds.--The Secretary of Energy shall use amounts made 
available under subsection (a) to--
            (1) pay expenses associated with convening relevant 
        stakeholders, including States, generation and transmission 
        developers, regional transmission organizations, independent 
        system operators, environmental organizations, Indian Tribes, 
        and other stakeholders the Secretary determines appropriate, to 
        address the development of interregional electricity 
        transmission and transmission of electricity that is generated 
        by offshore wind; and
            (2) conduct planning, modeling, and analysis regarding 
        interregional electricity transmission and transmission of 
        electricity that is generated by offshore wind, taking into 
        account the local, regional, and national economic, 
        reliability, resilience, security, public policy, and 
        environmental benefits of interregional electricity 
        transmission and transmission of electricity that is generated 
        by offshore wind, including planning, modeling, and analysis, 
        as the Secretary determines appropriate, pertaining to--
                    (A) clean energy integration into the electric 
                grid, including the identification of renewable energy 
                zones;
                    (B) the effects of changes in weather due to 
                climate change on the reliability and resilience of the 
                electric grid;
                    (C) cost allocation methodologies that facilitate 
                the expansion of the bulk power system;
                    (D) the benefits of coordination between generator 
                interconnection processes and transmission planning 
                processes;
                    (E) the effect of increased electrification on the 
                electric grid;
                    (F) power flow modeling;
                    (G) the benefits of increased interconnections or 
                interties between or among the Western Interconnection, 
                the Eastern Interconnection, the Electric Reliability 
                Council of Texas, and other interconnections, as 
                applicable;
                    (H) the cooptimization of transmission and 
                generation, including variable energy resources, energy 
                storage, and demand-side management;
                    (I) the opportunities for use of nontransmission 
                alternatives and grid-enhancing technologies;
                    (J) economic development opportunities for 
                communities arising from development of interregional 
                electricity transmission and transmission of 
                electricity that is generated by offshore wind; and
                    (K) evaluation of existing rights-of-way and the 
                need for additional transmission corridors.
