---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# PART 3 - BUILDING EFFICIENCY AND RESILIENCE

SEC. 30431. WEATHERIZATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $3,500,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2031, to carry out activities 
under part A of title IV of the Energy Conservation and Production Act 
(42 U.S.C. 6861 through 6872).
    (b) Financial Assistance for WAP Enhancement and Innovation.--
Notwithstanding subsections (j) and (k) of section 414D of the Energy 
Conservation and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6864d(j) and (k)), the 
Secretary shall use $850,000,000 of the amount made available under 
subsection (a) of this section to award financial assistance under such 
section 414D, including financial assistance to implement measures to 
make dwelling units that are occupied by low-income persons 
weatherization-ready.
    (c) Average Cost Per Dwelling Unit.--Section 415(c) of the Energy 
Conservation and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6865(c)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``$6,500'' and inserting 
        ``$12,000''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking ``$3,000'' and inserting 
        ``$6,000''.

SEC. 30432. CRITICAL FACILITY MODERNIZATION.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$3,200,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, to carry 
out a program under which the Secretary of Energy provides funds to 
States to be used in accordance with subsection (c).
    (b) Allocation of Funds.--The Secretary of Energy shall allocate 
funds made available under subsection (a) to States in accordance with 
the formula used to allocate Federal financial assistance granted 
pursuant to section 363 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 
U.S.C. 6323) (as of January 1, 2021), except that no matching 
requirement shall apply.
    (c) Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--A State that receives funds under this 
        section shall use such funds to--
                    (A) provide technical assistance for carrying out a 
                covered project;
                    (B) facilitate carrying out a covered project, 
                including by providing a grant, loan, or other 
                financial assistance to another entity;
                    (C) carry out a covered project; or
                    (D) pay for any administrative expenses related to 
                any activity described in subparagraphs (A) through 
                (C).
            (2) Limit on technical assistance.--A State that receives 
        funds under this section may not use more than 10 percent of 
        such funds to provide technical assistance under paragraph 
        (1)(A) related to the development, facilitation, management, 
        oversight, or measurement of results of covered projects.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered project.--The term ``covered project'' means a 
        building project at an eligible facility that--
                    (A) increases--
                            (i) the resiliency of an eligible facility, 
                        which includes--
                                    (I) making improvements to public 
                                health and safety;
                                    (II) mitigating power outages;
                                    (III) hardening against natural 
                                disasters;
                                    (IV) improving indoor air quality; 
                                and
                                    (V) making any modifications 
                                necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic;
                            (ii) energy efficiency;
                            (iii) the use of renewable energy; or
                            (iv) grid integration; and
                    (B) may include a combined heat and power, 
                microgrid, or energy storage component.
            (2) Eligible facility.--The term ``eligible facility'' 
        means any public or nonprofit building, as determined by the 
        Secretary, including--
                    (A) a public school, including an elementary school 
                and a secondary school;
                    (B) a facility used to operate an early childhood 
                education program;
                    (C) the facilities of a local educational agency;
                    (D) a medical facility;
                    (E) a local or State government building;
                    (F) a community facility;
                    (G) a public safety facility;
                    (H) a day care center;
                    (I) an institution of higher education;
                    (J) a public library; and
                    (K) a wastewater treatment facility.
            (3) Public or nonprofit building.--The term ``public or 
        nonprofit building'' means a public or nonprofit building 
        described in section 362(d)(5)(B) of the Energy Policy and 
        Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6322(d)(5)(B)).
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 3 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 
        U.S.C. 6202).

SEC. 30433. ASSISTANCE FOR LATEST AND ZERO BUILDING ENERGY CODE 
              ADOPTION.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$300,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, to carry 
out activities under part D of title III of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6321 through 6326), of which--
            (1) $100,000,000, shall be for grants to assist States, and 
        units of local government that have authority to adopt building 
        codes, to--
                    (A) adopt--
                            (i) a building energy code (or codes) for 
                        residential buildings that meets or exceeds the 
                        2021 International Energy Conservation Code, or 
                        achieves equivalent or greater energy savings;
                            (ii) a building energy code (or codes) for 
                        commercial buildings that meets or exceeds the 
                        ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2019, or achieves 
                        equivalent or greater energy savings; or
                            (iii) any combination of building energy 
                        codes described in clause (i) or (ii); and
                    (B) implement a plan for the jurisdiction to 
                achieve full compliance with any building energy code 
                adopted under subparagraph (A) in new and renovated 
                residential or commercial buildings, as applicable, 
                which plan shall include active training and 
                enforcement programs and measurement of the rate of 
                compliance each year; and
            (2) $200,000,000, shall be for grants to assist States, and 
        units of local government that have authority to adopt building 
        codes, to--
                    (A) adopt a building energy code (or codes) for 
                residential and commercial buildings that meets or 
                exceeds the zero energy provisions in the 2021 
                International Energy Conservation Code or an equivalent 
                stretch code; and
                    (B) implement a plan for the jurisdiction to 
                achieve full compliance with any building energy code 
                adopted under subparagraph (A) in new and renovated 
                residential and commercial buildings, which plan shall 
                include active training and enforcement programs and 
                measurement of the rate of compliance each year.
    (b) State Match.--The State cost share requirement under the item 
relating to ``Department of Energy--Energy Conservation'' in title II 
of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1985 (42 U.S.C. 6323a; 98 Stat. 1861) shall not apply to 
assistance provided under this section.
    (c) Administrative Costs.--Of the amounts made available under this 
section, the Secretary shall reserve 5 percent for administrative costs 
necessary to carry out this section.
