---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# PART 5 - DOE LOAN AND GRANT PROGRAMS

SEC. 30451. FUNDING FOR DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY LOAN PROGRAMS OFFICE.

    (a) Commitment Authority.--In addition to commitment authority 
otherwise available and previously provided, the Secretary of Energy 
may make commitments to guarantee loans for eligible projects under 
section 1703 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 up to a total principal 
amount of $30,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no commitments shall be made using the authority 
provided by this section after September 30, 2031: Provided, That for 
amounts collected pursuant to section 1702(b)(2) of the Energy Policy 
Act of 2005, the source of such payment received from borrowers may not 
be a loan or other debt obligation that is guaranteed by the Federal 
Government: Provided further, That none of the loan guarantee authority 
made available by this section shall be available for any project 
unless the Director of the Office of Management and Budget has 
certified in advance in writing that the loan guarantee and the project 
comply with the provisions under this section: Provided further, That 
none of such loan guarantee authority made available by this section 
shall be available for commitments to guarantee loans for any projects 
where funds, personnel, or property (tangible or intangible) of any 
Federal agency, instrumentality, personnel, or affiliated entity are 
expected to be used (directly or indirectly) through acquisitions, 
contracts, demonstrations, exchanges, grants, incentives, leases, 
procurements, sales, other transaction authority, or other 
arrangements, to support the project or to obtain goods or services 
from the project: Provided further, That the previous proviso shall not 
be interpreted as precluding the use of the loan guarantee authority 
provided by this section for commitments to guarantee loans for--
            (1) projects as a result of such projects benefitting from 
        otherwise allowable Federal tax benefits;
            (2) projects as a result of such projects benefitting from 
        being located on Federal land pursuant to a lease or right-of-
        way agreement for which all consideration for all uses is--
                    (A) paid exclusively in cash;
                    (B) deposited in the Treasury as offsetting 
                receipts; and
                    (C) equal to the fair market value as determined by 
                the head of the relevant Federal agency;
            (3) projects as a result of such projects benefitting from 
        Federal insurance programs; or
            (4) electric generation projects using transmission 
        facilities owned or operated by a Federal Power Marketing 
        Administration or the Tennessee Valley Authority that have been 
        authorized, approved, and financed independent of the project 
        receiving the guarantee.
    (b) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available and 
previously provided, there is appropriated to the Secretary of Energy 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $700,000,000, to remain available until expended (except 
that no funds shall be disbursed after September 30, 2031), for the 
costs of guarantees made under section 1703 of the Energy Policy Act of 
2005, using the loan guarantee authority provided under subsection (a) 
of this section, for renewable or energy efficient systems and 
manufacturing, and distributed energy generation, transmission, and 
distribution.
    (c) Administrative Expenses.--Of the amount made available under 
subsection (b), the Secretary of Energy shall reserve 3 percent for 
administrative expenses to carry out title XVII of the Energy Policy 
Act of 2005 and for carrying out section 1702(h)(3) of such Act.

SEC. 30452. ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$3,000,000,000, to remain available until expended (except that no 
funds shall be disbursed after September 30, 2031), for the costs of--
            (1) providing direct loans under subsection (d) of section 
        136 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 
        U.S.C. 17013); and
            (2) providing direct loans in accordance with such section 
        136, for reequipping, expanding, or establishing a 
        manufacturing facility in the United States to produce, or for 
        engineering integration performed in the United States of, any 
        of the following that emit, under any possible operational mode 
        or condition, zero exhaust emissions of any greenhouse gas:
                    (A) A medium duty vehicle or a heavy duty vehicle.
                    (B) A train or locomotive.
                    (C) A maritime vessel.
                    (D) An aircraft.
                    (E) Hyperloop technology.
    (b) Administrative Costs.--The Secretary shall reserve $12,000,000 
of amounts made available under subsection (a) for administrative costs 
of providing loans as described in subsection (a).
    (c) Elimination of Loan Program Cap.--Section 136(d)(1) of the 
Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17013(d)(1)) is 
amended by striking ``a total of not more than $25,000,000,000 in''.

SEC. 30453. DOMESTIC MANUFACTURING CONVERSION GRANTS.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$1,000,000,000, to remain available until expended (except that no 
funds shall be disbursed after September 30, 2031), for grants relating 
to domestic production of zero-emission vehicles under section 712 of 
the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16062).
    (b) Administrative Costs.--The Secretary shall reserve 2 percent of 
amounts made available under subsection (a) for administrative costs of 
making grants described in such subsection (a) pursuant to section 712 
of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16062).

SEC. 30454. ENERGY COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT FINANCING.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,000,000,000, to 
remain available until expended (except that no funds shall be 
disbursed after September 30, 2031), for the cost of providing 
financial support under section 1706 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005.
    (b) Amendment.--Title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
U.S.C. 16511 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 1706. ENERGY COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT FINANCING PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--Notwithstanding section 1702(f) and section 
1703, and not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
section, the Secretary shall establish a program to provide financial 
support, in such form and on such terms and conditions as the Secretary 
determines appropriate, to eligible entities for the purpose of 
enabling low-carbon reinvestments in energy communities, which such 
reinvestments may include--
            ``(1) supporting workers who are or have been engaged in 
        providing, or have been affected by the provision of, energy-
        intensive goods or services by helping such workers find 
        employment opportunities, including by providing training and 
        education;
            ``(2) redeveloping a community that is or was engaged in 
        providing, or has been affected by the provision of, energy-
        intensive goods or services;
            ``(3) accelerating remediation of environmental damage 
        caused by the provision of energy-intensive goods or services; 
        and
            ``(4) mitigating the effects on customers of any 
        significant reduction in the carbon intensity of goods or 
        services provided by the eligible entity, including by the 
        cost-effective abatement of greenhouse gas emissions from 
        continuing operations and the repowering, retooling, 
        repurposing, redeveloping, or remediating of any long-lived 
        assets, lands, or infrastructure currently or previously used 
        by the eligible entity primarily to support the provision of 
        energy-intensive goods or services.
    ``(b) Application Requirement.--To apply for financial support 
provided under this section, an eligible entity shall submit to the 
Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing 
such information as the Secretary may require, which such application 
shall include--
            ``(1) a detailed plan describing the activities to be 
        carried out in accordance with subsection (a), including 
        activities for the measurement, monitoring, and verification of 
        emissions of greenhouse gases; and
            ``(2) if the eligible entity is a utility subject to 
        regulation by a State commission or other State regulatory 
        authority, assurances, as determined appropriate by the 
        Secretary, that such eligible entity shall pass through any 
        financial benefit from the provision of any financial support 
        under this section to its customers or energy communities.
    ``(c) Other Requirements.--
            ``(1) Fees.--Notwithstanding section 1702(h)(1), the 
        Secretary shall charge and collect a fee from each eligible 
        entity that received financial support provided under this 
        section in an amount the Secretary determines sufficient to 
        cover applicable administrative expenses (including any costs 
        associated with third party consultants engaged by the 
        Secretary).
            ``(2) Use of appropriated funds.--Any cost for any 
        financial support provided under this section shall be paid by 
        the Secretary using appropriated funds.
            ``(3) Application of other law.--Section 20320(a) of 
        division B of Public Law 109-289 (42 U.S.C. 16515(a)) shall not 
        apply to this section.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Cost; direct loan.--The terms `cost' and `direct 
        loan' have the meanings given such terms in section 502 of the 
        Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a).
            ``(2) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' means 
        any entity that is directly affiliated with the provision of 
        energy-intensive goods or services.
            ``(3) Energy community.--The term `energy community' means 
        a community whose members are or were engaged in providing, or 
        have been affected by the provision of, energy-intensive goods 
        and services.
            ``(4) Financial support.--The term `financial support' 
        means any credit product or support the Secretary determines 
        appropriate to implement this section, including--
                    ``(A) a direct loan;
                    ``(B) a line of credit; and
                    ``(C) a guarantee, including of a letter of credit 
                for the purposes of subsection (a)(3).
            ``(5) Guarantee.--The term `guarantee' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 1701.''.
