---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# PART 4 - ZERO EMISSIONS VEHICLE INFRASTRUCTURE BUILDOUT

SEC. 30441. DEFINITIONS.

    In this part:
            (1) Electric vehicle.--The term ``electric vehicle'' means 
        a vehicle that derives all or part of its power from 
        electricity.
            (2) Electric vehicle supply equipment.--The term ``electric 
        vehicle supply equipment'' means any conductors, including 
        ungrounded, grounded, and equipment grounding conductors, 
        electric vehicle connectors, attachment plugs, and all other 
        fittings, devices, power outlets, electrical equipment, off-
        grid charging installations, or apparatuses installed 
        specifically for the purpose of delivering energy to an 
        electric vehicle or to a battery intended to be used in an 
        electric vehicle.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.

SEC. 30442. ELECTRIC VEHICLE SUPPLY EQUIPMENT REBATE PROGRAM.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,000,000,000, to 
remain available until expended (except that no funds shall be 
disbursed after September 30, 2031), to establish and carry out a 
rebate program to provide rebates to eligible entities for covered 
expenses associated with electric vehicle supply equipment located at 
workplaces, multi-unit housing structures, and publicly accessible 
locations.
    (b) Rebate Program Requirements.--
            (1) Eligible equipment and locations.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                publish and maintain on the Department of Energy 
                internet website a list of electric vehicle supply 
                equipment that is eligible for the rebate program. Such 
                list may include technical specifications and 
                requirements for such electric vehicle supply equipment 
                to enhance safety, cybersecurity, performance, 
                accessibility, and alignment with relevant codes and 
                standards, as determined appropriate by the Secretary.
                    (B) Location requirement.--An eligible entity may 
                receive a rebate under the rebate program only if the 
                electric vehicle supply equipment included on the list 
                published under subparagraph (A) is installed--
                            (i) in the United States;
                            (ii) on property--
                                    (I) owned by the eligible entity; 
                                or
                                    (II) on which the eligible entity 
                                has authority to install electric 
                                vehicle supply equipment; and
                            (iii) at a location that is--
                                    (I) a multi-unit housing structure;
                                    (II) a workplace, and available to 
                                employees of such workplace or 
                                employees of a nearby workplace; or
                                    (III) publicly accessible, 
                                including a publicly accessible 
                                commercial location.
                    (C) Public accessibility.--For electric vehicle 
                supply equipment not located at a multi-unit housing 
                structure or a workplace, an eligible entity may 
                receive a rebate under the rebate program only if the 
                installed electric vehicle supply equipment is--
                            (i) publicly accessible for a minimum of 12 
                        hours per day at least 5 days per week; and
                            (ii) networked or otherwise capable of 
                        being monitored remotely.
            (2) Application.--In order to receive a rebate under the 
        rebate program, an eligible entity shall submit to the 
        Secretary an application. Such application shall include--
                    (A) the estimated cost of covered expenses to be 
                expended on the electric vehicle supply equipment that 
                is eligible under paragraph (1);
                    (B) the estimated installation cost of the electric 
                vehicle supply equipment that is eligible under 
                paragraph (1);
                    (C) the global positioning system location, 
                including the integer number of degrees, minutes, and 
                seconds, of where such electric vehicle supply 
                equipment is to be installed, and identification of 
                whether such location is--
                            (i) a multi-unit housing structure;
                            (ii) a workplace; or
                            (iii) publicly accessible, including a 
                        publicly accessible commercial location, in 
                        accordance with paragraph (1)(C);
                    (D) the technical specifications of such electric 
                vehicle supply equipment, including the maximum power 
                voltage and amperage of such equipment;
                    (E) an assessment of the electrical capacity at the 
                location where such electric vehicle supply equipment 
                is to be installed, and, as necessary, proof of 
                communication with the electric utility that will serve 
                the electric vehicle supply equipment to be installed; 
                and
                    (F) any other information determined by the 
                Secretary to be necessary for a complete application.
            (3) Funding set-asides.--Each fiscal year, the Secretary 
        may set aside an amount of funding under the rebate program to 
        ensure, to the extent possible given the applications meeting 
        the requirements of the rebate program submitted, rebates are 
        distributed--
                    (A) to individuals and small businesses, as 
                determined by the Secretary; and
                    (B) for electric vehicle supply equipment--
                            (i) located in rural communities, as 
                        determined by the Secretary; and
                            (ii) located in low-income and 
                        disadvantaged communities, as determined by the 
                        Secretary.
            (4) Rebate amount.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the amount of a rebate made under the rebate 
                program for new electric vehicle supply equipment at a 
                location shall be the lesser of--
                            (i) 75 percent of the applicable covered 
                        expenses;
                            (ii) $1,000 for covered expenses associated 
                        with the purchase and installation of non-
                        networked level 2 charging equipment;
                            (iii) $4,000 for covered expenses 
                        associated with the purchase and installation 
                        of networked level 2 charging equipment; or
                            (iv) $100,000 for covered expenses 
                        associated with the purchase and installation 
                        of networked direct current fast charging 
                        equipment.
                    (B) Rebate amount for replacement equipment.--The 
                amount of a rebate made under the rebate program for 
                replacement of pre-existing electric vehicle supply 
                equipment of similar specifications at a location shall 
                be the lesser of--
                            (i) 75 percent of the applicable covered 
                        expenses;
                            (ii) $500 for covered expenses associated 
                        with the purchase and installation of non-
                        networked level 2 charging equipment;
                            (iii) $2,000 for covered expenses 
                        associated with the purchase and installation 
                        of networked level 2 charging equipment; or
                            (iv) $35,000 for covered expenses 
                        associated with the purchase and installation 
                        of networked direct current fast charging 
                        equipment.
            (5) Disbursement of rebate.--
                    (A) Materials required for disbursement of 
                rebate.--Before a rebate may be disbursed to an 
                eligible entity, such eligible entity shall submit to 
                the Secretary--
                            (i) a record of payment for covered 
                        expenses expended on the installation of the 
                        electric vehicle supply equipment that is 
                        eligible under paragraph (1);
                            (ii) a record of payment for the electric 
                        vehicle supply equipment that is eligible under 
                        paragraph (1);
                            (iii) the global positioning system 
                        location, including the integer number of 
                        degrees, minutes, and seconds, of where such 
                        electric vehicle supply equipment was installed 
                        and identification of whether such location 
                        is--
                                    (I) a multi-unit housing structure;
                                    (II) a workplace; or
                                    (III) publicly accessible, 
                                including a publicly accessible 
                                commercial location, in accordance with 
                                paragraph (1)(C);
                            (iv) the technical specifications of the 
                        electric vehicle supply equipment that is 
                        eligible under paragraph (1), including the 
                        maximum power voltage and amperage of such 
                        equipment; and
                            (v) any other information determined by the 
                        Secretary to be necessary.
                    (B) Agreement to maintain.--To be eligible for a 
                rebate under the rebate program, an eligible entity 
                shall enter into an agreement with the Secretary to 
                maintain the electric vehicle supply equipment that is 
                eligible under paragraph (1) in a satisfactory manner, 
                and at the location stated in the application or in the 
                materials submitted under subparagraph (A), as 
                applicable, for not fewer than 5 years after the date 
                on which the eligible entity receives the rebate under 
                the rebate program.
                    (C) Exception.--The Secretary may decline to 
                disburse a rebate under the rebate program if materials 
                submitted under subparagraph (A) vary significantly, as 
                determined by the Secretary, from the global 
                positioning system location and technical 
                specifications for the electric vehicle supply 
                equipment that is eligible under paragraph (1) provided 
                in an application under paragraph (2).
            (6) Multi-port chargers.--An eligible entity shall be 
        awarded a rebate under the rebate program for covered expenses 
        relating to the purchase and installation of a multi-port 
        charger based on the number of publicly accessible charging 
        ports, with each subsequent port after the first port being 
        eligible for 75 percent of the full rebate amount.
            (7) Hydrogen fuel cell refueling equipment.--Hydrogen fuel 
        cell refueling equipment shall be eligible for a rebate under 
        the rebate program as though it were networked direct current 
        fast charging equipment, and all applicable requirements 
        related to such equipment shall apply.
            (8) Networked direct current fast charging.--Of amounts 
        appropriated to carry out the rebate program, not more than 40 
        percent may be used for rebates of networked direct current 
        fast charging equipment or hydrogen fuel cell refueling 
        equipment.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered expenses.--The term ``covered expenses'' means 
        an expense that is associated with the purchase and 
        installation of electric vehicle supply equipment, including--
                    (A) the cost of electric vehicle supply equipment;
                    (B) labor costs associated with the installation of 
                such electric vehicle supply equipment;
                    (C) material costs associated with the installation 
                of such electric vehicle supply equipment, including 
                expenses borne by rebate recipients for electrical 
                equipment and necessary upgrades or modifications to 
                the electrical grid and associated infrastructure 
                required for the installation of such electric vehicle 
                supply equipment;
                    (D) permit costs associated with the installation 
                of such electric vehicle supply equipment; and
                    (E) the cost of an on-site energy storage system 
                that supports electrical load balancing or otherwise 
                improves the performance of such electric vehicle 
                supply equipment.
            (2) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means an 
        individual, a State, local, Tribal, or Territorial government, 
        a private entity, a not-for-profit entity, a nonprofit entity, 
        or a metropolitan planning organization.
            (3) Level 2 charging equipment.--The term ``level 2 
        charging equipment'' means electric vehicle supply equipment 
        that provides an alternating current power source at a minimum 
        of 208 volts.
            (4) Multi-port charger.--The term ``multi-port charger'' 
        means electric vehicle charging unit capable of charging more 
        than one electric vehicle simultaneously.
            (5) Networked direct current fast charging equipment.--The 
        term ``networked direct current fast charging equipment'' means 
        electric vehicle supply equipment that is capable of providing 
        a direct current power source at a minimum of 50 kilowatts and 
        is enabled to connect to a network to facilitate data 
        collection and access.
            (6) Rebate program.--The term ``rebate program'' means the 
        rebate program established under subsection (a).

SEC. 30443. ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING EQUITY PROGRAM.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2031 (except that no funds shall 
be disbursed after September 30, 2031), to carry out this section.
    (b) Program.--The Secretary shall use amounts made available under 
subsection (a) to establish and carry out a program, to be known as the 
EV Charging Equity Program, to--
            (1) provide technical assistance to eligible entities 
        described in subsection (f);
            (2) award grants on a competitive basis to eligible 
        entities described in subsection (f) for projects that increase 
        deployment and accessibility of electric vehicle supply 
        equipment in underserved or disadvantaged communities, 
        including projects that are--
                    (A) publicly accessible;
                    (B) located within or are easily accessible to 
                residents of--
                            (i) public or affordable housing;
                            (ii) multi-unit dwellings; or
                            (iii) single-family homes; and
                    (C) located within or easily accessible to places 
                of work, provided that such electric vehicle supply 
                equipment is accessible no fewer than 5 days per week; 
                and
            (3) provide education and outreach regarding the EV 
        Charging Equity Program and the benefits and opportunities for 
        electric vehicle charging to individuals and relevant entities 
        that live within or serve underserved or disadvantaged 
        communities, including by providing--
                    (A) an electric vehicle charging resource guide 
                that is maintained electronically on a website, is 
                public, and is directed towards individuals and 
                relevant entities that live within or serve underserved 
                or disadvantaged communities;
                    (B) targeted outreach towards, and coordinated 
                public outreach with, relevant local, State, and Tribal 
                entities, nonprofit organizations, and institutions of 
                higher education, that are located within or serve 
                underserved or disadvantaged communities; and
                    (C) any other form of education or outreach as the 
                Secretary determines appropriate.
    (c) Cost Share.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        amount of a grant awarded under this section for a project 
        shall not exceed 80 percent of project costs.
            (2) Single-family homes.--The amount of a grant awarded 
        under this section for a project that involves, as a primary 
        focus, single-family homes shall not exceed 60 percent of 
        project costs.
    (d) Priority.--In awarding grants and providing technical 
assistance under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to 
projects that--
            (1) provide the greatest benefit to the greatest number of 
        people within an underserved or disadvantaged community;
            (2) incorporate renewable energy resources;
            (3) maximize local job creation, particularly among low-
        income, women, and minority workers; or
            (4) utilize or involve locally owned small and 
        disadvantaged businesses, including women and minority-owned 
        businesses.
    (e) Limitation.--Not more than 15 percent of the amount awarded for 
grants under this section in a fiscal year shall be awarded for 
projects that involve, as a primary focus, single-family homes.
    (f) Eligible Entities.--
            (1) In general.--To be eligible for a grant or technical 
        assistance under the EV Charging Equity Program, an entity 
        shall be--
                    (A) an individual or household that is the owner of 
                where a project will be carried out;
                    (B) a State, local, Tribal, or Territorial 
                government, or an agency or department thereof;
                    (C) an electric utility, including--
                            (i) a municipally owned electric utility;
                            (ii) a publicly owned electric utility;
                            (iii) an investor-owned utility; and
                            (iv) a rural electric cooperative;
                    (D) a nonprofit organization or institution;
                    (E) a public housing authority;
                    (F) an institution of higher education, as 
                determined by the Secretary;
                    (G) an entity that utilizes or involves locally 
                owned small and disadvantaged businesses, including 
                women and minority-owned businesses; or
                    (H) a partnership between any number of eligible 
                entities described in subparagraphs (A) through (G).
            (2) Updates.--The Secretary may add to or otherwise revise 
        the list of eligible entities as the Secretary determines 
        necessary.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Publicly accessible.--The term ``publicly accessible'' 
        means, with respect to electric vehicle supply equipment, 
        electric vehicle supply equipment that is available, at zero or 
        reasonable cost, to members of the public for the purpose of 
        charging a privately owned or leased electric vehicle, or 
        electric vehicle that is available for use by members of the 
        general public as part of a ride service or vehicle sharing 
        service or program, including within or around--
                    (A) public sidewalks and streets;
                    (B) public parks;
                    (C) public buildings, including--
                            (i) libraries;
                            (ii) schools; and
                            (iii) government offices;
                    (D) public parking;
                    (E) shopping centers; and
                    (F) commuter transit hubs.
            (2) Underserved or disadvantaged community.--The term 
        ``underserved or disadvantaged community'' means a community or 
        geographic area that is identified as--
                    (A) a low-income community;
                    (B) a Tribal community;
                    (C) having a disproportionately low number of 
                electric vehicle charging stations per capita, compared 
                to similar areas; or
                    (D) any other community that the Secretary 
                determines is disproportionately vulnerable to, or 
                bears a disproportionate burden of, any combination of 
                economic, social, environmental, and climate stressors.

SEC. 30444. STATE ENERGY PLANS.

    (a) Appropriation.--Section 365(f) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6325(f)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(f) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $500,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2031 (except that no funds shall 
be disbursed after September 30, 2031), to carry out section 367.''.
    (b) State Energy Transportation Plans.--
            (1) In general.--The Energy Policy and Conservation Act is 
        amended by adding after section 366 (42 U.S.C. 6326) the 
        following:

``SEC. 367. STATE ENERGY TRANSPORTATION PLANS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may provide financial assistance 
and technical assistance to a State to develop a State energy 
transportation plan, for inclusion in a State energy conservation plan 
under section 362(d), to promote the electrification of the 
transportation system, reduced consumption of fossil fuels, and reduced 
energy demand.
    ``(b) Development.--A State developing a State energy 
transportation plan under this section shall carry out this activity 
through the State energy office that is responsible for developing the 
State energy conservation plan under section 362.
    ``(c) Contents.--A State developing a State energy transportation 
plan under this section shall include in such plan a plan to--
            ``(1) deploy a network of electric vehicle supply equipment 
        to ensure access to electricity for electric vehicles, 
        including commercial vehicles, to an extent that such electric 
        vehicles can travel throughout the State without running out of 
        a charge; and
            ``(2) promote modernization of the electric grid, including 
        through the use of renewable energy sources to power the 
        electric grid, to accommodate demand for power to operate 
        electric vehicle supply equipment and to utilize energy storage 
        capacity provided by electric vehicles, including commercial 
        vehicles.
    ``(d) Technical Assistance.--Upon request of the Governor of a 
State, the Secretary shall provide information and technical assistance 
in the development, implementation, or revision of a State energy 
transportation plan.
    ``(e) Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Defined.--For purposes of 
this section, the term `electric vehicle supply equipment' means any 
conductors, including ungrounded, grounded, and equipment grounding 
conductors, electric vehicle connectors, attachment plugs, and all 
other fittings, devices, power outlets, electrical equipment, off-grid 
charging installations, or apparatuses installed specifically for the 
purpose of delivering energy to an electric vehicle or to a battery 
intended to be used in an electric vehicle.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--The table of contents for part D 
        of title III of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:

``Sec. 367. State energy transportation plans.''.
    (c) State Energy Conservation Plans.--Section 362(d) of the Energy 
Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6322(d)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (16), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
        a semicolon;
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (17) as paragraph (18); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (16) the following:
            ``(17) a State energy transportation plan developed in 
        accordance with section 367; and''.

SEC. 30445. TRANSPORTATION ELECTRIFICATION.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available 
until September 30, 2031 (except that no funds shall be disbursed after 
September 30, 2031)--
            (1) $4,000,000,000 for grants under section 131(b) of the 
        Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 
        17011(b)); and
            (2) $6,000,000,000 for grants under subsection (b) of this 
        section.
    (b) Use of Funds.--The Secretary may use amounts made available 
under subsection (a)(2) of this section to--
            (1) provide grants under subsection (c) of section 131 of 
        the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 
        17011) for the conduct of qualified electric transportation 
        projects (as defined in such section 131); and
            (2) provide grants in accordance with section 131(c) of 
        such Act for the conduct of any of the following projects:
                    (A) Installation of electric vehicle supply 
                equipment for recharging plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles, including such equipment that is accessible 
                in rural and urban areas and in underserved or 
                disadvantaged communities and such equipment for 
                medium- and heavy-duty vehicles, including at depots 
                and in-route locations.
                    (B) Multi-use charging hubs used for multiple forms 
                of transportation.
                    (C) Medium- and heavy-duty vehicle smart charging 
                management and refueling.
                    (D) Battery recycling and secondary use, including 
                for medium- and heavy-duty vehicles.
                    (E) Shipside or shoreside electrification for 
                ground support equipment at ports.
                    (F) Electric airport ground support vehicles.
                    (G) Sharing of best practices, and technical 
                assistance provided by the Department of Energy to 
                public utilities commissions and utilities, for medium- 
                and heavy-duty vehicle electrification.
    (c) Priority.--In making grants under section 131(b) of the Energy 
Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17011(b)) using 
amounts made available under subsection (a)(1) of this section, in 
addition to the priority considerations described in paragraph (3) of 
such section 131(b), the Secretary shall give priority consideration to 
applications that are likely to make a significant contribution to the 
advancement of the production of the components and charging equipment 
for the vehicles described in paragraph (1) of such section 131(b) in 
the United States.
