---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Subtitle E - Child Nutrition and Related Programs

## SEC. 24001. EXPANDING COMMUNITY ELIGIBILITY.

    (a) Multiplier and Threshold Adjusted.--
            (1) Multiplier.--Clause (vii) of section 11(a)(1)(F) of the 
        Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 
        1759a(a)(1)(F)) is amended to read as follows:
                            ``(vii) Multiplier.--
                                    ``(I) Implementation in 2022-
                                2030.--For each school year beginning 
                                on or after July 1, 2022, and ending 
                                before July 1, 2030, the Secretary 
                                shall use a multiplier of 2.5.
                                    ``(II) Implementation after 2030.--
                                For each school year beginning on or 
                                after July 1, 2030, the Secretary shall 
                                use a multiplier of 1.6.''.
            (2) Threshold.--Clause (viii) of section 11(a)(1)(F) of the 
        Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 
        1759a(a)(1)(F)) is amended to read as follows:
                            ``(viii) Threshold.--
                                    ``(I) Implementation in 2022-
                                2030.--For each school year beginning 
                                on or after July 1, 2022, and ending 
                                before July 1, 2030, the threshold 
                                shall be not more than 25 percent.
                                    ``(II) Implementation after 2030.--
                                For each school year beginning on or 
                                after July 1, 2030, the threshold shall 
                                be not more than 40 percent.''.
            (3) Applicability.--The amendments made by this subsection 
        shall apply to a local educational agency with respect to a 
        school year beginning on or after July 1, 2022, for which such 
        local educational agency elects to receive special assistance 
        payments under subparagraph (F) of section 11(a)(1) of the 
        Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 
        1759a(a)(1)).
    (b) Statewide Community Eligibility.--Section 11(a)(1)(F) of the 
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1759a(a)(1)(F)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(xiv) Statewide community eligibility.--
                        For each school year beginning on or after July 
                        1, 2022, and ending before July 1, 2030, the 
                        Secretary shall establish a statewide community 
                        eligibility program under which, in the case of 
                        a State agency that agrees to provide funding 
                        from sources other than Federal funds to ensure 
                        that local educational agencies in the State 
                        receive the free reimbursement rate for 100 
                        percent of the meals served at applicable 
                        schools--
                                    ``(I) the multiplier described in 
                                clause (vii) shall apply;
                                    ``(II) the threshold described in 
                                clause (viii) shall be applied by 
                                substituting zero for 25; and
                                    ``(III) the percentage of enrolled 
                                students who were identified students 
                                shall be calculated across all 
                                applicable schools in the State 
                                regardless of local educational 
                                agency.''.

SEC. 24002. DIRECT CERTIFICATION FOR CHILDREN RECEIVING MEDICAID 
              BENEFITS.

    (a) In General.--Section 9 of the Richard B. Russell National 
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(b)) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (5) to read as follows:
            ``(5) Discretionary certification.--
                    ``(A) Free lunches or breakfasts.--Subject to 
                paragraph (6), any local educational agency may certify 
                any child as eligible for free lunches or breakfasts, 
                without further application, by directly communicating 
                with the appropriate State or local agency to obtain 
                documentation of the status of the child as--
                            ``(i) a member of a family that is 
                        receiving assistance under the temporary 
                        assistance for needy families program funded 
                        under part A of title IV of the Social Security 
                        Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) that the Secretary 
                        determines complies with standards established 
                        by the Secretary that ensure that the standards 
                        under the State program are comparable to or 
                        more restrictive than those in effect on June 
                        1, 1995;
                            ``(ii) a homeless child or youth (defined 
                        as 1 of the individuals described in section 
                        725(2) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
                        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a(2));
                            ``(iii) served by the runaway and homeless 
                        youth grant program established under the 
                        Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701 
                        et seq.);
                            ``(iv) a migratory child (as defined in 
                        section 1309 of the Elementary and Secondary 
                        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6399));
                            ``(v) an eligible child (as defined in 
                        paragraph (15)(A)); or
                            ``(vi)(I) a foster child whose care and 
                        placement is the responsibility of an agency 
                        that administers a State plan under part B or E 
                        of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 
                        U.S.C. 621 et seq.); or
                            ``(II) a foster child who a court has 
                        placed with a caretaker household.
                    ``(B) Reduced price lunches or breakfasts.--Subject 
                to paragraph (6), any local educational agency may 
                certify any child who is not eligible for free school 
                lunch or breakfast as eligible for reduced price 
                lunches or breakfasts, without further application, by 
                directly communicating with the appropriate State or 
                local agency to obtain documentation of the status of 
                the child as a child eligible for reduced price meals 
                (as defined in paragraph (15)(A)).'';
                    (B) in paragraph (6)(A), by striking ``or (5)'' 
                both places it appears and inserting ``(5), or (15)''; 
                and
                    (C) in paragraph (15)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) by amending clause (i) to read 
                                as follows:
                            ``(i) Eligible child.--The term `eligible 
                        child' means a child--
                                    ``(I)(aa) who is eligible for and 
                                receiving medical assistance under the 
                                Medicaid program; and
                                    ``(bb) who is a member of a family 
                                with an income as measured by the 
                                Medicaid program that does not exceed 
                                133 percent of the poverty line (as 
                                determined under the poverty guidelines 
                                updated periodically in the Federal 
                                Register by the Department of Health 
                                and Human Services under the authority 
                                of section 673(2) of the Community 
                                Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 
                                9902(2), including any revision 
                                required by such section)) applicable 
                                to a family of the size used for 
                                purposes of determining eligibility for 
                                the Medicaid program;
                                    ``(II) who is eligible for the 
                                Medicaid program because such child 
                                receives supplemental security income 
                                benefits under title XVI of the Social 
                                Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1381-1385) or 
                                State supplementary benefits of the 
                                type referred to in section 1616(a) of 
                                such Act (or payments of the type 
                                described in section 212(a) of Public 
                                Law 93-66);
                                    ``(III) who is eligible for the 
                                Medicaid program because such child 
                                receives an adoption assistance payment 
                                made under section 473(a) of the Social 
                                Security Act (42 U.S.C. 673(a)) or 
                                under a similar State-funded or State-
                                operated program, as determined by the 
                                Secretary;
                                    ``(IV) who is eligible for the 
                                Medicaid program because such child 
                                receives a kinship guardianship 
                                assistance payment made under section 
                                473(d) of the Social Security Act (42 
                                U.S.C. 673(d)) or under a similar 
                                State-funded or State-operated program, 
                                as determined by the Secretary, without 
                                regard to whether such child was 
                                previously in foster care; or
                                    ``(V) who is a member of a 
                                household (as that term is defined in 
                                section 245.2 of title 7, Code of 
                                Federal Regulations (or successor 
                                regulations)) with a child described in 
                                subclause (I), (II), (III), or (IV).''; 
                                and
                                    (II) by adding at the end the 
                                following:
                            ``(iii) Child eligible for reduced price 
                        meals.--The term `child eligible for reduced 
                        price meals' means a child--
                                    ``(I)(aa) who is eligible for and 
                                receiving medical assistance under the 
                                Medicaid program; and
                                    ``(bb) who is a member of a family 
                                with an income as measured by the 
                                Medicaid program that does exceed 133 
                                percent but does not exceed 185 percent 
                                of the poverty line (as determined 
                                under the poverty guidelines updated 
                                periodically in the Federal Register by 
                                the Department of Health and Human 
                                Services under the authority of section 
                                673(2) of the Community Services Block 
                                Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2), including 
                                any revision required by such section)) 
                                applicable to a family of the size used 
                                for purposes of determining eligibility 
                                for the Medicaid program; or
                                    ``(II) who is a member of a 
                                household (as that term is defined in 
                                section 245.2 of title 7, Code of 
                                Federal Regulations (or successor 
                                regulations)) with a child described in 
                                subclause (I).'';
                            (ii) by striking subparagraphs (B), (C), 
                        (D), (E), (G), and (H);
                            (iii) in subparagraph (F)--
                                    (I) in the enumerator, by striking 
                                ``(F)'' and inserting ``(D)''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``conducting the 
                                demonstration project under this 
                                paragraph'' and inserting ``carrying 
                                out this paragraph'';
                            (iv) by inserting after subparagraph (A) 
                        the following:
                    ``(B) Agreements to carry out certification.--To 
                certify a child under subparagraph (A)(v) or (B) of 
                paragraph (5), a State agency shall enter into an 
                agreement with 1 or more State agencies conducting 
                eligibility determinations for the Medicaid program.
                    ``(C) Procedures.--Subject to paragraph (6), an 
                agreement under subparagraph (B) shall establish 
                procedures under which--
                            ``(i) an eligible child may be certified 
                        for free lunches under this Act and free 
                        breakfasts under section 4 of the Child 
                        Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773), without 
                        further application (as defined in paragraph 
                        (4)(G)); and
                            ``(ii) a child eligible for reduced price 
                        meals may be certified for reduced price 
                        lunches under this Act or reduced price 
                        breakfasts under section 4 of the Child 
                        Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773), without 
                        further application (as defined in paragraph 
                        (4)(G)).''; and
                            (v) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) Sunset.--The authority under this paragraph 
                shall terminate on the last day of school year 2030-
                2031.''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)(2)(G), by inserting ``or child 
        eligible for reduced price meals'' after ``eligible child''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
with respect to the period--
            (1) beginning on July 1, 2022; and
            (2) ending on the last day of school year 2030-2031.

SEC. 24003. SUMMER ELECTRONIC BENEFITS TRANSFER FOR CHILDREN PROGRAM.

    The Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act is amended by 
inserting after section 13 (42 U.S.C. 1761) the following:

``SEC. 13A. SUMMER ELECTRONIC BENEFITS TRANSFER FOR CHILDREN PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Program Established.--The Secretary shall establish a program 
under which States and covered Indian Tribal organizations 
participating in such program shall, beginning with summer 2023 and 
annually for each summer before the date described in subsection (g), 
issue to eligible households summer EBT benefits--
            ``(1) in accordance with this section; and
            ``(2) for the purpose of providing nutrition assistance 
        through electronic benefits transfer during the summer months 
        for eligible children, to ensure continued access to food when 
        school is not in session for the summer.
    ``(b) Summer EBT Benefits Requirements.--
            ``(1) Purchase options.--
                    ``(A) Benefits issued by states.--
                            ``(i) WIC participation states.--In the 
                        case of a State that participated in a 
                        demonstration program under section 749(g) of 
                        the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and 
                        Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
                        Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-80; 
                        123 Stat. 2132) during calendar year 2018 using 
                        a WIC model, summer EBT benefits issued 
                        pursuant to subsection (a) by such a State may 
                        only be used by the eligible household that 
                        receives such summer EBT benefits to purchase--
                                    ``(I) supplemental foods from 
                                retailers that have been approved for 
                                participation in--
                                            ``(aa) the special 
                                        supplemental nutrition program 
                                        for women, infants, and 
                                        children under section 17 of 
                                        the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
                                        (42 U.S.C. 1786); or
                                            ``(bb) the program under 
                                        this section; or
                                    ``(II) food (as defined in section 
                                3(k) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 
                                2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011(k))) from retail 
                                food stores that have been approved for 
                                participation in the supplemental 
                                nutrition assistance program 
                                established under such Act, in 
                                accordance with section 7(b) of such 
                                Act (7 U.S.C. 2016(b)).
                            ``(ii) Other states.--Summer EBT benefits 
                        issued pursuant to subsection (a) by a State 
                        not described in clause (i) may only be used by 
                        the eligible household that receives such 
                        summer EBT benefits to purchase food (as 
                        defined in section 3(k) of the Food and 
                        Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011(k))) from 
                        retail food stores that have been approved for 
                        participation in the supplemental nutrition 
                        assistance program established under such Act, 
                        in accordance with section 7(b) of such Act (7 
                        U.S.C. 2016(b)).
                    ``(B) Benefits issued by covered indian tribal 
                organizations.--Summer EBT benefits issued pursuant to 
                subsection (a) by a covered Indian Tribal organization 
                may only be used by the eligible household that 
                receives such summer EBT benefits to purchase 
                supplemental foods from retailers that have been 
                approved for participation in--
                            ``(i) the special supplemental nutrition 
                        program for women, infants, and children under 
                        section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
                        (42 U.S.C. 1786); or
                            ``(ii) the program under this section.
            ``(2) Amount.--Summer EBT benefits issued pursuant to 
        subsection (a)--
                    ``(A) shall be--
                            ``(i) for calendar year 2023, in an amount 
                        equal to $75 for each child in the eligible 
                        household per month during the summer; and
                            ``(ii) for calendar year 2024 and each year 
                        thereafter, in an amount equal to the amount 
                        described in clause (i), adjusted to the 
                        nearest lower dollar increment to reflect 
                        changes to the cost of the thrifty food plan 
                        (as defined in section 3(u) of the Food and 
                        Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2012(u)) for 
                        the 12-month period ending on November 30 of 
                        the preceding calendar year; and
                    ``(B) may be issued--
                            ``(i) in the form of an EBT card; or
                            ``(ii) through electronic delivery.
    ``(c) Enrollment in Program.--
            ``(1) State requirements.--States participating in the 
        program under this section shall--
                    ``(A) with respect to a summer, automatically 
                enroll eligible children in the program under this 
                section without further application;
                    ``(B) establish procedures to carry out the 
                enrollment described in subparagraph (A); and
                    ``(C) require local educational agencies to allow 
                eligible households to opt out of participation in the 
                program under this section and establish procedures for 
                opting out of such participation.
            ``(2) Covered indian tribal organization requirements.--
        Covered Indian Tribal organizations participating in the 
        program under this section shall, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, meet the requirements under subparagraphs (A) 
        through (C) of paragraph (1).
    ``(d) Implementation Grants.--On and after October 1, 2021, the 
Secretary shall carry out a program to make grants to States and 
covered Indian Tribal organizations to build capacity for implementing 
the program under this section.
    ``(e) Alternate Plans in the Case of Continuous School Calendar.--
The Secretary shall establish alternative plans for when summer EBT 
benefits may be issued pursuant to subsection (a) in the case of 
children who are under a continuous school calendar.
    ``(f) Funding.--
            ``(1) Program funding.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated for each of fiscal years 2022 
        through 2029, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
        appropriated, such sums, to remain available for the period 
        described in paragraph (2), as may be necessary to carry out 
        this section, including for administrative expenses incurred by 
        the Secretary, States, covered Indian Tribal organizations, and 
        local educational agencies.
            ``(2) Period described.--With respect to each fiscal year 
        under paragraph (1), amounts made available for such a fiscal 
        year under such paragraph shall remain available for the 2-year 
        period following the date such amounts are made available.
            ``(3) Implementation grant funding.--In addition to amounts 
        otherwise available, including under paragraph (1), there is 
        appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
        Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, to remain 
        available until expended, to carry out subsection (d).
    ``(g) Sunset.--The authority under this section shall terminate on 
September 30, 2029.
    ``(h) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Covered indian tribal organization.--The term 
        `covered Indian Tribal organization' means an Indian Tribal 
        organization that participates in the special supplemental 
        nutrition program for women, infants, and children under 
        section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786).
            ``(2) Eligible child.--The term `eligible child' means, 
        with respect to a summer, a child who was, during the school 
        year immediately preceding such summer--
                    ``(A) certified to receive free or reduced price 
                lunch under the school lunch program under this Act;
                    ``(B) certified to receive free or reduced price 
                breakfast under the school breakfast program under 
                section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 
                1773); or
                    ``(C) enrolled in a school described in 
                subparagraph (B), (C), (D), (E), or (F) of section 
                11(a)(1).
            ``(3) Eligible household.--The term `eligible household' 
        means a household that includes at least 1 eligible child.
            ``(4) Supplemental foods.--The term `supplemental foods'--
                    ``(A) means foods--
                            ``(i) containing nutrients determined by 
                        nutritional research to be lacking in the diets 
                        of children; and
                            ``(ii) that promote the health of the 
                        population served by the program under this 
                        section, as indicated by relevant nutrition 
                        science, public health concerns, and cultural 
                        eating patterns, as determined by the 
                        Secretary; and
                    ``(B) includes foods not described in subparagraph 
                (A) substituted by State agencies, with the approval of 
                the Secretary, that--
                            ``(i) provide the nutritional equivalent of 
                        foods described in such subparagraph; and
                            ``(ii) allow for different cultural eating 
                        patterns than foods described in such 
                        subparagraph.''.

SEC. 24004. SCHOOL KITCHEN EQUIPMENT GRANTS.

    (a) In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is 
appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture for fiscal year 2022, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $500,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, to award grants to States (as 
defined in section 12(d) of the Richard B. Russell National School 
Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1760(d))) to make competitive subgrants to local 
educational agencies and schools to purchase equipment with a value of 
greater than $1,000 that, with respect to the school lunch program 
established under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1751-1769j) and the school breakfast program established under 
section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773), is 
necessary to serve healthier meals, improve food safety, and increase 
scratch cooking.
    (b) The Secretary may set aside up to 5 percent of the funds made 
available under subsection (a) for the purpose of training and 
technical assistance to support scratch cooking, which may be 
administered by States or other entities.

SEC. 24005. HEALTHY FOOD INCENTIVES DEMONSTRATION.

    (a) In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is 
appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture for fiscal year 2022, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $634,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, to provide competitive grants to 
States in accordance with this section.
    (b) A State that receives a grant under this section shall use such 
grant funds to make subgrants to local educational agencies and schools 
for activities that support--
            (1) serving healthy school meals and afterschool snacks 
        that meet discretionary goals established by the Secretary;
            (2) increasing scratch cooking;
            (3) conducting experiential nutrition education activities, 
        including school garden programs;
            (4) procuring local, regional, and culturally appropriate 
        foods and foods produced by underserved or limited resource 
        farmers, as defined by the Secretary, to serve as part of the 
        child nutrition programs under the Richard B. Russell National 
        School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751-1769j) or the Child Nutrition 
        Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771-1793);
            (5) reducing the availability of less healthy foods, as 
        defined by the Secretary, during the school day; or
            (6) carrying out additional activities to encourage the 
        development of healthy nutrition and physical activity habits 
        among children.
    (c) A State that receives a grant under this section may use such 
grant funds to fund a statewide nutrition education coordinator to--
            (1) support individual school food authority nutrition 
        education efforts; and
            (2) facilitate collaboration with other nutrition education 
        efforts in the State.
    (d) A State that receives a grant under this section may not use 
more than 5 percent of such grant funds to carry out administrative 
activities.
    (e) In this section, the term ``State'' has the meaning given the 
term in section 12(d) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1760(d)).
