---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Subtitle F - Human Services and Community Supports

## SEC. 25001. ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, to carry 
out the Assistive Technology Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.).

SEC. 25002. FAMILY VIOLENCE PREVENTION AND SERVICES FUNDING.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $27,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
necessary administrative expenses to carry out sections 303, 309, and 
313 of the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act (42 U.S.C. 
10401-10414) and section 2204 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 
(Public Law 117-2).

SEC. 25003. PREGNANCY ASSISTANCE FUND.

    Section 10214 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 
U.S.C. 18204) is amended by striking the period and inserting ``, and 
$25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2024, to remain 
available until expended, to carry out this part.''.

SEC. 25004. FUNDING FOR THE AGING NETWORK AND INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there are appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the Department of Health and 
Human Services--
            (1) $75,000,000 for the Research, Demonstration, and 
        Evaluation Center for the Aging Network to carry out the 
        activities of the Center under section 201(g) of the Older 
        Americans Act of 1965 (OAA) (42 U.S.C. 3011(g));
            (2) $655,000,000 to carry out part B of title III of the 
        OAA (42 U.S.C. 3030d), including for--
                    (A) supportive services of the type made available 
                for fiscal year 2021 and authorized under such part;
                    (B) investing in the aging services network for the 
                purposes of improving the availability of supportive 
                services, including investing in the aging services 
                network workforce;
                    (C) the acquisition, alteration, or renovation of 
                facilities, including multipurpose senior centers and 
                mobile units; and
                    (D) construction or modernization of facilities to 
                serve as multipurpose senior centers;
            (3) $140,000,000 to carry out part C of title III of the 
        OAA (42 U.S.C. 3030d-21-3030g-23), including to support the 
        modernization of infrastructure and technology, including 
        kitchen equipment and delivery vehicles, to support the 
        provision of congregate nutrition services and home delivered 
        nutrition services under such part;
            (4) $150,000,000 to carry out part E of title III of the 
        OAA (42 U.S.C. 3030s-3030s-2), including section 373(e) of such 
        part (42 U.S.C. 3030s-1(e));
            (5) $50,000,000 to carry out title VI of the OAA (42 U.S.C. 
        3057-3057o), including part C of such title (42 U.S.C. 3057k-
        11);
            (6) $50,000,000 to carry out the long-term care ombudsman 
        program under title VII of the OAA (42 U.S.C. 3058-3058ff);
            (7) $59,000,000 for technical assistance centers or 
        national resource centers supported under the OAA, including 
        all such centers that received funding under title IV of the 
        OAA (42 U.S.C. 3031-3033a) for fiscal year 2021, in order to 
        support technical assistance and resource development related 
        to culturally appropriate care management and services for 
        older individuals with the greatest social need, including 
        racial and ethnic minority individuals;
            (8) $15,000,000 for technical assistance centers or 
        national resource centers supported under the OAA that are 
        focused on providing services for older individuals who are 
        underserved due to their sexual orientation or gender identity;
            (9) $1,000,000 for efforts of national training and 
        technical assistance centers supported under the OAA to--
                    (A) support expanding the reach of the aging 
                services network to more effectively assist older 
                individuals in remaining socially engaged and active;
                    (B) provide additional support in technical 
                assistance and training to the aging services network 
                to address the social isolation of older individuals;
                    (C) promote best practices and identify innovation 
                in the field; and
                    (D) continue to support a repository for 
                innovations designed to increase the ability of the 
                aging services network to tailor social engagement 
                activities to meet the needs of older individuals; and
            (10) $5,000,000 to carry out section 417 of the OAA (42 
        U.S.C. 3032f).
Amounts appropriated by this subsection shall remain available until 
expended.
    (b) Nonapplicability of Certain Requirements.--The non-Federal 
contribution requirements under sections 304(d)(1)(D) and 431(a) of the 
Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3024(d)(1)(D), 3033(a)), and 
section 373(h)(2) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 3030s-1(h)(2)), shall not 
apply to--
            (1) any amounts made available under this section; or
            (2) any amounts made available under section 2921 of the 
        American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (Public Law 117-2).

SEC. 25005. OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH 
              AND HUMAN SERVICES.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of Health and Human Services for fiscal year 2022, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$50,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the Office of 
Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, for 
salaries and expenses necessary for oversight, investigations, and 
audits of programs, grants, and projects funded under subtitles D and F 
of this title.

SEC. 25006. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CENTER FOR SUPPORTING DIRECT CARE AND 
              CAREGIVING.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting 
through the Administrator for the Administration for Community Living, 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, 
to establish, directly or through grants, contracts, or cooperative 
agreements, a national technical assistance center (referred to in this 
section as the ``Center'') to--
            (1) provide technical assistance for supporting direct care 
        workforce recruitment, education and training, retention, 
        career advancement, and for supporting family caregivers and 
        caregiving activities;
            (2) develop and disseminate a set of replicable models or 
        evidence-based or evidence-informed strategies or best 
        practices for--
                    (A) recruitment, education and training, retention, 
                and career advancement of direct care workers;
                    (B) reducing barriers to accessing direct care 
                services; and
                    (C) increasing access to alternatives to direct 
                care services, including assistive technology, that 
                reduce reliance on such services;
            (3) provide recommendations for education and training 
        curricula for direct care workers; and
            (4) provide recommendations for activities to further 
        support paid and unpaid family caregivers, including expanding 
        respite care.
    (b) Direct Care Worker Defined.--The term ``direct care worker'' 
has the meaning given such term in section 22301.
