---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Subpart A - America's College Promise

## SEC. 20021. GRANTS FOR TUITION-FREE COMMUNITY COLLEGE.

    Title VII of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1133 et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

                  ``PART F--AMERICA'S COLLEGE PROMISE

         ``Subpart 1--Grants for Tuition-Free Community College

``SEC. 785. GRANT AWARDS.

    ``(a) In General.--Beginning with award year 2023-2024, from 
amounts appropriated to carry out this subpart for any fiscal year, the 
Secretary shall award grants to States and eligible Tribal Colleges and 
Universities to pay the Federal share of expenditures needed to carry 
out the activities and services described in section 789.
    ``(b) Timing of Grant Awards.--The Secretary shall award grant 
funds under subsection (a) for an award year not less than 30 days 
before the first day of the award year.

``SEC. 786. FEDERAL SHARE; STATE SHARE.

    ``(a) Federal Share.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Amount.--Subject to paragraph (2), the amount 
                of the Federal share of a grant under this subpart 
                shall be based on a formula that provides, for each 
                eligible student enrolled in a community college 
                operated or controlled by the State or in an eligible 
                Tribal College or University, a per-student amount 
                (based on full-time equivalent enrollment) that is 
                equal to the applicable percent described in 
                subparagraph (B), or the percent described in paragraph 
                (2) with respect to an eligible Tribal College or 
                University, of--
                            ``(i) for the 2023-2024 award year, the 
                        median resident community college tuition and 
                        fees per student in all States, not weighted 
                        for enrollment, for the most recent award year 
                        for which data are available; and
                            ``(ii) for each subsequent award year, the 
                        amount determined under this paragraph for the 
                        preceding award year, increased by the lesser 
                        of--
                                    ``(I) a percentage equal to the 
                                estimated percentage increase in the 
                                Consumer Price Index (as determined by 
                                the Secretary) since the date of such 
                                determination; or
                                    ``(II) 3 percent.
                    ``(B) Applicable percent.--The applicable percent 
                for a State receiving a grant under this subpart shall 
                be--
                            ``(i) for the 2023-2024 award year, 100 
                        percent;
                            ``(ii) for the 2024-2025 award year, 95 
                        percent;
                            ``(iii) for the 2025-2026 award year, 90 
                        percent;
                            ``(iv) for the 2026-2027 award year, 85 
                        percent; and
                            ``(v) for the 2027-2028 award year, 80 
                        percent.
            ``(2) Tribal colleges and universities.--The amount of the 
        Federal share for an eligible Tribal College or University 
        receiving a grant under this subpart shall be the greater of--
                    ``(A) 100 percent of the per-student amount 
                determined in accordance with clause (i) or (ii) of 
                paragraph (1)(A), as applicable, with respect to 
                eligible students enrolled in such eligible Tribal 
                College or University (based on full-time equivalent 
                enrollment); or
                    ``(B) the amount that is 100 percent of the total 
                amount needed to set tuition and fees to $0 for all 
                eligible students enrolled in such eligible Tribal 
                College or University for the 2021-2022 award year, 
                increased by the percentage increase in the Consumer 
                Price Index (as determined by the Secretary) between 
                July 1, 2021, and the applicable award year, and 
                adjusted to reflect the enrollment in such eligible 
                Tribal College or University for such applicable award 
                year.
    ``(b) State Share.--
            ``(1) Formula.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The State share of a grant under 
                this subpart for each award year shall be the amount 
                needed to pay the applicable percent described in 
                subparagraph (B) of the median resident community 
                college tuition and fees in all States, not weighted 
                for enrollment, per student (based on full-time 
                equivalent enrollment) determined in accordance with 
                subsection (a)(1)(A)(i) for all eligible students 
                enrolled in a community college operated or controlled 
                by the State for such award year.
                    ``(B) Applicable percent.--The applicable percent 
                shall be--
                            ``(i) for the 2023-2024 award year, 0 
                        percent;
                            ``(ii) for the 2024-2025 award year, 5 
                        percent;
                            ``(iii) for the 2025-2026 award year, 10 
                        percent;
                            ``(iv) for the 2026-2027 award year, 15 
                        percent; and
                            ``(v) for the 2027-2028 award year, 20 
                        percent.
                    ``(C) Obligation to provide share.--The State shall 
                provide the State share even if the State is able to 
                set tuition and fees charged to eligible students 
                attending community colleges operated or controlled by 
                the State to $0 as required by section 788(a) without 
                such State share.
                    ``(D) No double counting funds.--Except with 
                respect to funding described in paragraph (2)(A), no 
                funds that count toward the maintenance of effort 
                requirement under section 788(c) may also count toward 
                the State share under this subsection.
                    ``(E) Special rule for outlying areas and 
                territories.--
                            ``(i) In general.--If the Secretary 
                        determines that requiring an outlying area or 
                        territory to provide a State share in 
                        accordance with this subsection would represent 
                        a substantial hardship for the outlying area or 
                        territory, the Secretary may reduce or waive 
                        the State share for such area or territory. If 
                        the Secretary so reduces or waives the amount 
                        of the State share of an outlying area or 
                        territory, the Secretary shall increase the 
                        applicable percent used to calculate the 
                        Federal share for such area or territory, in 
                        proportion to the reduction in the applicable 
                        percent used to calculate such State share.
                            ``(ii) Definition.--For the purposes of 
                        this subparagraph, the term `outlying area or 
                        territory' means the Commonwealth of Puerto 
                        Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, American 
                        Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, the 
                        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, 
                        and the Freely Associated States.
            ``(2) Inclusion of state financial aid and local funds.--In 
        the case of a State that demonstrates to the satisfaction of 
        the Secretary that community colleges operated or controlled by 
        such State will not experience a net reduction in total per-
        student revenue (including revenue derived from tuition and 
        fees) as compared to the preceding fiscal year in such State, a 
        State may include, as part of the State share--
                    ``(A) any financial aid that is provided from State 
                funds to an eligible student and that--
                            ``(i)(I) is not awarded predominantly on 
                        the basis of merit, including programs awarded 
                        on the basis of predicted or actual academic 
                        performance or assessments; and
                            ``(II) may be used by such student to pay 
                        any component of cost of attendance, as defined 
                        under section 472; and
                    ``(B) any funds provided to community colleges by 
                local governments in such State for the purpose of 
                carrying out this subpart.
            ``(3) Relationship to maintenance of effort.--The inclusion 
        of funds described in paragraph (2) as part of a State's share 
        shall modify the maintenance of effort requirements under 
        section 788(c) in accordance with the provisions of--
                    ``(A) section 791(10)(B)(iii), with respect to 
                funds included under paragraph (2)(A); and
                    ``(B) section 791(10)(A)(ii), with respect to funds 
                included under paragraph (2)(B).
            ``(4) No in-kind contributions.--A State shall not include 
        in-kind contributions for purposes of the State share described 
        in paragraph (1).
    ``(c) Determining Number of Eligible Students.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of subsections (a) and (b), 
        the Secretary shall, in consultation with the State or eligible 
        Tribal College or University concerned, determine the estimated 
        number of eligible students enrolled in the community colleges 
        operated or controlled by such State or in such eligible Tribal 
        College or University for the applicable award year.
            ``(2) Adjustment of grant amount.--For each year for which 
        a State or eligible Tribal College or University receives a 
        grant under this subpart, the Secretary shall, once final 
        enrollment data for such year are available--
                    ``(A) in consultation with the State or eligible 
                Tribal College or University concerned, determine the 
                actual number of eligible students enrolled in the 
                community colleges operated or controlled by such State 
                or in such eligible Tribal College or University for 
                the year covered by the grant; and
                    ``(B) adjust the Federal share of the grant amount 
                received by the State or eligible Tribal College or 
                University and the State share under subsection (b) to 
                reflect the actual number of eligible students, which 
                may include applying the relevant adjustment to such 
                Federal share or the State share, or both, in the 
                subsequent award year.
    ``(d) Community Colleges Operated or Controlled by State to Include 
Community Colleges Operated or Controlled by Local Governments Within 
the State.--For purposes of this subpart, the term `community college 
operated or controlled by a State' shall include a community college 
operated or controlled by a local government within such State.
    ``(e) Inapplicability of State Requirements to Eligible TCUs.--The 
Secretary may not apply any requirements applicable only to States 
under this subpart to an eligible Tribal College or University, 
including the requirements under subsection (b), section 788(b) and 
(c), and section 790.

``SEC. 787. APPLICATIONS.

    ``In order to receive a grant under this subpart, a State or 
eligible Tribal College or University shall submit an application to 
the Secretary that includes--
            ``(1) an estimate of the number of eligible students 
        enrolled in the community colleges operated or controlled by 
        the State or in the eligible Tribal College or University and 
        the cost of waiving tuition and fees for all eligible students 
        for each award year covered by the grant;
            ``(2) in the case of a State, a list of each of the 
        community colleges operated or controlled by the State;
            ``(3) an assurance that each community college operated or 
        controlled by the State, or the eligible Tribal College or 
        University, as applicable, will set community college tuition 
        and fees for eligible students to $0 as required by section 
        788(a);
            ``(4) a description of how the State or eligible Tribal 
        College or University will ensure that programs leading to a 
        recognized postsecondary credential meet the quality criteria 
        established by the State under section 122(b)(1) of the 
        Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3152(b)(1)) 
        or other quality criteria determined appropriate by the State 
        or eligible Tribal College or University;
            ``(5) an assurance that each community college operated or 
        controlled by the State or the eligible Tribal College or 
        University, as applicable, has entered into a program 
        participation agreement under section 487;
            ``(6) an assurance that the State or eligible Tribal 
        College or University will assist eligible students in 
        obtaining information about and accessing means-tested Federal 
        benefit programs and similar State, tribal, and local benefit 
        programs that can provide financial assistance for any 
        component of the student's cost of attendance, as defined under 
        section 472, other than tuition and fees;
            ``(7) an assurance that, for each year of the grant, the 
        State or eligible Tribal College or University will notify each 
        eligible student of the student's remaining eligibility for 
        assistance under this subpart;
            ``(8) if the application is submitted by a State--
                    ``(A) an assurance that the State will meet the 
                requirements of section 788(b)(1) relating to the 
                alignment of secondary and postsecondary education; and
                    ``(B) an assurance that the State will meet the 
                requirements of section 788(b)(2) relating to the 
                improvement of transfer pathways between institutions 
                of higher education; and
            ``(9) an assurance that the State or eligible Tribal 
        College or University will clearly communicate to prospective 
        students, including students with prior college experience who 
        have not completed a postsecondary degree or credential, their 
        families, and the general public--
                    ``(A) plans to implement the program funded under 
                this subpart; and
                    ``(B) how eligible students can attend a community 
                college operated or controlled by the State or an 
                eligible Tribal College or University without paying 
                tuition and fees.

``SEC. 788. PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.

    ``(a) General Requirements.--As a condition of receiving a grant 
under this subpart in each award year, a State or eligible Tribal 
College or University shall--
            ``(1) ensure that the total amount of tuition and fees 
        charged to an eligible student attending a community college 
        operated or controlled by the State or the eligible Tribal 
        College or University, as applicable, is $0;
            ``(2) not apply financial assistance for which an eligible 
        student qualifies to tuition or fees; and
            ``(3) not use any funds provided under this subpart for 
        administrative purposes relating to such grant.
    ``(b) State Requirements.--In addition to the requirements under 
subsection (a), as a condition of receiving a grant under this subpart 
a State shall meet the following requirements:
            ``(1) Alignment of secondary and higher education.--The 
        State shall--
                    ``(A) submit and implement a plan to align the 
                requirements for receiving a regular high school 
                diploma from public schools in the State with the 
                requirements for entering credit-bearing coursework at 
                community colleges in such State; and
                    ``(B) not later than 3 years after the date on 
                which the State first receives a grant under this 
                subpart, certify to the Secretary that such alignment 
                has been achieved.
            ``(2) Transfer pathways.--The State shall--
                    ``(A) submit a plan, developed in collaboration 
                with faculty from institutions of higher education in 
                the State, to improve transfer pathways among 
                institutions of higher education in the State, 
                including by--
                            ``(i) ensuring that associate degrees 
                        awarded by community colleges in the State are 
                        fully transferable to, and credited as, the 
                        first 2 years of related baccalaureate programs 
                        at public institutions of higher education in 
                        such State;
                            ``(ii) increasing the transferability of 
                        individual courses within the certificate or 
                        associate programs offered by community 
                        colleges in the State to related baccalaureate 
                        programs offered by institutions of higher 
                        education in such State to maximize the 
                        transferability of credits for students who 
                        transfer before completing an associate degree;
                            ``(iii) expanding the use of reverse 
                        transfer policies that allow institutions to--
                                    ``(I) implement the process of 
                                retroactively granting a certificate or 
                                associate degree to students who had 
                                not completed the requirements for such 
                                certificate or degree before they 
                                transferred; and
                                    ``(II) allow academic credits for 
                                coursework completed at a 4-year 
                                institution to be applied to a 
                                previously-attended community college 
                                for the purpose of obtaining an 
                                associate degree or a certificate; and
                            ``(iv) ensuring that students attending 
                        community colleges in the State have access to 
                        comprehensive counseling and supports to 
                        facilitate the process of transferring to a 4-
                        year institution of higher education; and
                    ``(B) not later than 3 years after the date on 
                which the State first receives a grant under this 
                subpart, certify to the Secretary that the State is 
                carrying out the plan submitted in accordance with 
                subparagraph (A) and is meeting the requirements of 
                clauses (i) through (iv) of such subparagraph.
    ``(c) State Maintenance of Effort.--A State receiving a grant under 
this subpart shall be entitled to receive its full allotment of funds 
under this subpart for a fiscal year only if, for each year of the 
grant, the State provides--
            ``(1) State fiscal support for higher education per full-
        time equivalent student at a level equal to or exceeding the 
        average amount of State fiscal support for higher education per 
        full-time equivalent student provided for the 3 consecutive 
        preceding fiscal years;
            ``(2) financial support for operating expenses (excluding 
        capital expenses and research and development costs) for public 
        4-year institutions of higher education at a level equal to or 
        exceeding the average amount provided for the 3 consecutive 
        preceding State fiscal years; and
            ``(3) financial support for need-based financial aid at a 
        level equal to or exceeding the average amount provided for the 
        3 consecutive preceding State fiscal years.
    ``(d) No Additional Eligibility Requirements.--A State or eligible 
Tribal College or University that receives a grant under this subpart 
may not impose additional eligibility requirements on eligible students 
other than the requirements under this subpart.
    ``(e) Eligibility for Benefits.--No individual shall be determined 
to be ineligible to receive benefits provided under this subpart 
(including tuition and fees set to $0 and other aid provided under this 
subpart) on the basis of citizenship, alienage, or immigration status.

``SEC. 789. ALLOWABLE USES OF FUNDS.

    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b)--
            ``(1) a State shall use a grant under this subpart only to 
        provide funds to each community college operated or controlled 
        by the State to enable each such community college to set 
        community college tuition and fees for eligible students to $0 
        as required under section 788(a); and
            ``(2) an eligible Tribal College or University shall use a 
        grant under this subpart only to set community college tuition 
        and fees for eligible students to $0 as required under section 
        788(a).
    ``(b) Additional Uses.--If a State or an eligible Tribal College or 
University demonstrates to the Secretary that the State or eligible 
Tribal College or University has grant funds remaining after meeting 
the demand for activities described in subsection (a), the State or 
eligible Tribal College or University shall use the remaining funds to 
carry out 1 or more of the following:
            ``(1) Providing need-based financial aid to students that 
        may be used by such students to pay any component of cost of 
        attendance, as defined under section 472.
            ``(2) Reducing unmet need at public 4-year institutions of 
        higher education.
            ``(3) Improving student outcomes by implementing evidence-
        based institutional reforms or practices, including reforms or 
        practices that are described in section 795D(b)(1) or that meet 
        an evidence tier defined in section 795E(2).
            ``(4) Expanding access to dual or concurrent enrollment 
        programs or early college high school programs.
    ``(c) Supplement, Not Supplant.--Except as provided in section 
786(b)(2)(A), funds made available under this subpart shall be used to 
supplement, and not supplant, other Federal, State, tribal, and local 
funds that would otherwise be expended to carry out activities 
described in this section.
    ``(d) Continuation of Funding.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), a 
        State or an eligible Tribal College or University receiving a 
        grant under this subpart for an award year may continue to 
        receive funding under this subpart for subsequent award years 
        conditioned on the availability of budget authority and on 
        meeting the requirements of the grant, as determined by the 
        Secretary.
            ``(2) Discontinuation.--The Secretary shall discontinue or 
        reduce funding of the Federal share of a grant under this 
        subpart if the State or an eligible Tribal College or 
        University has violated the terms of the grant.
    ``(e) Rule of Construction Regarding BIE Funds.--Nothing in this 
subpart shall be construed to impact the availability of funds from, or 
uses of funds provided by, the Bureau of Indian Education for Tribal 
Colleges and Universities.

``SEC. 790. AUTOMATIC STABILIZERS FOR AMERICA'S COLLEGE PROMISE.

    ``(a) Maintenance of Effort Relief.--A State that meets the 
qualifying spending requirement may request a waiver of the 
requirements under section 788(c). Upon request by such a State, the 
Secretary shall waive the requirements of section 788(c) for the State 
as follows:
            ``(1) Tier i.--With respect to each State eligible for 
        relief under tier I, such requirements shall be waived for the 
        fiscal year succeeding the fiscal year for which the 
        determination of the State's eligibility for such relief is 
        made.
            ``(2) Tiers ii through v.--With respect to each State 
        eligible for relief under tier II, III, IV, or V, such 
        requirements shall be waived, in accordance with subsection 
        (d), for--
                    ``(A) the fiscal year for which the determination 
                of the State's eligibility for such relief is made;
                    ``(B) the fiscal year succeeding the fiscal year 
                described in subparagraph (A); or
                    ``(C) both such fiscal years.
    ``(b) State Share Relief.--
            ``(1) State share relief.--A State that meets the 
        qualifying spending requirement and is eligible for relief 
        under tier II, III, IV, or V may request relief with respect to 
        the requirements of section 786(b)(1)(B). Upon request by such 
        a State, the Secretary shall provide relief from the 
        requirements of section 786(b)(1)(B), for the applicable award 
        year or years, for the State as follows:
                    ``(A) Tier ii.--With respect to a State that is 
                eligible for relief under tier II, the Secretary 
                shall--
                            ``(i) apply section 786(a)(1)(B)(v) by 
                        substituting `85 percent' for `80 percent'; and
                            ``(ii) apply section 786(b)(1)(B)(v) by 
                        substituting `15 percent' for `20 percent'.
                    ``(B) Tier iii.--With respect to a State that is 
                eligible for relief under tier III, the Secretary 
                shall--
                            ``(i) apply section 786(a)(1)(B)(iv) by 
                        substituting `90 percent' for `85 percent';
                            ``(ii) apply section 786(a)(1)(B)(v) by 
                        substituting `90 percent' for `80 percent';
                            ``(iii) apply section 786(b)(1)(B)(iv) by 
                        substituting `10 percent' for `15 percent'; and
                            ``(iv) apply section 786(b)(1)(B)(v) by 
                        substituting `10 percent' for `20 percent'.
                    ``(C) Tier iv.--With respect to a State that is 
                eligible for relief under tier IV, the Secretary 
                shall--
                            ``(i) apply section 786(a)(1)(B)(iii) by 
                        substituting `95 percent' for `90 percent';
                            ``(ii) apply section 786(a)(1)(B)(iv) by 
                        substituting `95 percent' for `85 percent';
                            ``(iii) apply section 786(a)(1)(B)(v) by 
                        substituting `95 percent' for `80 percent';
                            ``(iv) apply section 786(b)(1)(B)(iii) by 
                        substituting `5 percent' for `10 percent';
                            ``(v) apply section 786(b)(1)(B)(iv) by 
                        substituting `5 percent' for '15 percent'; and
                            ``(vi) apply section 786(b)(1)(B)(v) by 
                        substituting `5 percent' for `20 percent'.
                    ``(D) Tier v.--With respect to a State that is 
                eligible for relief under tier V, the Secretary shall--
                            ``(i) apply section 786(a)(1)(B)(ii) by 
                        substituting `100 percent' for `95 percent';
                            ``(ii) apply section 786(a)(1)(B)(iii) by 
                        substituting `100 percent' for `90 percent';
                            ``(iii) apply section 786(a)(1)(B)(iv) by 
                        substituting `100 percent' for `85 percent';
                            ``(iv) apply section 786(a)(1)(B)(v) by 
                        substituting `100 percent' for `80 percent';
                            ``(v) apply section 786(b)(1)(B)(ii) by 
                        substituting `0 percent' for `5 percent';
                            ``(vi) apply section 786(b)(1)(B)(iii) by 
                        substituting `0 percent' for `10 percent';
                            ``(vii) apply section 786(b)(1)(B)(iv) by 
                        substituting `0 percent' for '15 percent'; and
                            ``(viii) apply section 786(b)(1)(B)(v) by 
                        substituting `0 percent' for `20 percent'.
            ``(2) Applicable award years.--With respect to each State 
        eligible for relief under tier II, III, IV, or V, the Secretary 
        shall provide the relief under paragraph (1), in accordance 
        with subsection (d), for--
                    ``(A) the award year for which the determination of 
                the State's eligibility for such relief is made;
                    ``(B) the award year succeeding the award year 
                described in subparagraph (A); or
                    ``(C) both such award years.
    ``(c) State Eligibility.--A State's eligibility for relief under 
this section shall be determined as follows:
            ``(1) Tier i.--A State shall be eligible for relief under 
        tier I for a fiscal year for which--
                    ``(A) the State is in an elevated unemployment 
                period at any point in the fiscal year; and
                    ``(B) the State is not eligible for relief under 
                any other tier.
            ``(2) Tier ii.--A State shall be eligible for relief under 
        tier II for a fiscal or award year, as applicable, for which--
                    ``(A)(i) the State average unemployment rate is 
                equal to or greater than 6.5 percent but less than 7.5 
                percent at any point in the fiscal or award year; or
                    ``(ii) the national average unemployment rate is 
                equal to or greater than 6.5 percent but less than 7.5 
                percent at any point in the fiscal or award year; and
                    ``(B) the State is not eligible for relief under 
                tier III, IV, or V.
            ``(3) Tier iii.--A State shall be eligible for relief under 
        tier III for a fiscal or award year, as applicable, for which--
                    ``(A)(i) the State average unemployment rate is 
                equal to or greater than 7.5 percent but less than 8.5 
                percent at any point in the fiscal or award year; or
                    ``(ii) the national average unemployment rate is 
                equal to or greater than 7.5 percent but less than 8.5 
                percent at any point in the fiscal or award year; and
                    ``(B) the State is not eligible for relief under 
                tier IV or V.
            ``(4) Tier iv.--A State shall be eligible for relief under 
        tier IV for a fiscal or award year, as applicable, for which--
                    ``(A)(i) the State average unemployment rate is 
                equal to or greater than 8.5 percent but less than 9.5 
                percent at any point in the fiscal or award year; or
                    ``(ii) the national average unemployment rate is 
                equal to or greater than 8.5 percent but less than 9.5 
                percent at any point in the fiscal or award year; and
                    ``(B) the State is not eligible for relief under 
                tier V.
            ``(5) Tier v.--A State shall be eligible for relief under 
        tier V for a fiscal or award year, as applicable, for which--
                    ``(A) the State average unemployment rate is equal 
                to or greater than 9.5 percent at any point in the 
                fiscal or award year; or
                    ``(B) the national average unemployment rate is 
                equal to or greater than 9.5 percent at any point in 
                the fiscal or award year.
    ``(d) Discretion in the Provision of Relief.--In determining the 
fiscal years for which to provide relief in accordance with subsection 
(a)(2), or the award years for which to provide relief in accordance 
with subsection (b), to a State that is eligible under tier II, III, 
IV, or V, the Secretary shall take into account the following:
            ``(1) In the case of a State that requests relief under 
        subsection (a)(2), the fiscal years for which the State 
        requests such relief, including--
                    ``(A) if the State requests such relief for the 
                fiscal year for which the determination of the State's 
                eligibility for such relief is made, the amount by 
                which the State is unable to meet the requirements of 
                section 788(c) for such fiscal year; and
                    ``(B) if the State requests such relief for the 
                fiscal year succeeding the year described in 
                subparagraph (A), the amount by which the State 
                anticipates being unable to meet such requirements for 
                such succeeding fiscal year.
            ``(2) In the case of a State that requests relief under 
        subsection (b), the award years for which the State requests 
        such relief, including--
                    ``(A) if the State requests such relief for the 
                award year for which the determination of the State's 
                eligibility for such relief is made, the extent to 
                which the State is unable to meet the requirements of 
                section 786(b)(1)(B) for such award year; and
                    ``(B) if the State requests such relief for the 
                award year succeeding the year described in 
                subparagraph (A), the extent to which the State 
                anticipates being unable to meet such requirements for 
                such succeeding award year.
            ``(3) The actual or anticipated timing, severity, and 
        duration of the unemployment rate increase during--
                    ``(A) the fiscal or award year, as applicable, for 
                which the determination of the State's eligibility for 
                such relief is made;
                    ``(B) the fiscal or award year, as applicable, 
                succeeding the fiscal or award year described in 
                subparagraph (A); and
                    ``(C) the fiscal or award year, as applicable, 
                preceding the fiscal or award year described in 
                subparagraph (A).
            ``(4) Other factors determined to be relevant by the 
        Secretary.
    ``(e) Continued Payment to Employees.--A State that receives relief 
under subsection (a) or (b) shall, to the greatest extent practicable, 
continue to pay its employees of, and contractors with, public 
institutions of higher education in the State during the period in 
which the State is receiving such relief.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Elevated unemployment period.--The term `elevated 
        unemployment period'--
                    ``(A) when used with respect to the Nation as a 
                whole, means a consecutive, 3-month period in a fiscal 
                year for which the national average unemployment rate 
                is not less than 0.5 percentage points above the lowest 
                national average unemployment rate for the 12-month 
                period preceding such 3-month period; and
                    ``(B) when used with respect to a State, means a 
                consecutive, 3-month period in a fiscal year in which 
                the State average unemployment rate is not less than 
                0.5 percentage points above the lowest State average 
                unemployment rate for such State for the 12-month 
                period preceding such 3-month period.
            ``(2) Qualifying spending requirement.--The term 
        `qualifying spending requirement', when used with respect to 
        determining whether a State has met such requirement, means the 
        State has not disproportionately decreased spending for any of 
        the categories described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of 
        section 788(c) relative to such State's overall decrease in 
        spending averaged over the 3 consecutive preceding fiscal 
        years.
            ``(3) National average unemployment rate.--The term 
        `national average unemployment rate' means the average 
        (seasonally adjusted) rate of total unemployment in all States 
        for a consecutive, 3-month period in a fiscal year, based on 
        data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of 
        Labor.
            ``(4) State average unemployment rate.--The term `State 
        average unemployment rate' means the average (seasonally 
        adjusted) rate of total unemployment in a State for a 
        consecutive, 3-month period in a fiscal year, based on data 
        from the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor.

``SEC. 791. DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this subpart:
            ``(1) Career pathway.--The term `career pathway' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation 
        and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).
            ``(2) Community college.--The term `community college' 
        means--
                    ``(A) a degree-granting public institution of 
                higher education at which--
                            ``(i) the highest degree awarded is an 
                        associate degree; or
                            ``(ii) an associate degree is the 
                        predominant degree awarded;
                    ``(B) an eligible Tribal College or University;
                    ``(C) a degree-granting branch campus of a 4-year 
                public institution of higher education, if, at such 
                branch campus--
                            ``(i) the highest degree awarded is an 
                        associate degree; or
                            ``(ii) an associate degree is the 
                        predominant degree awarded; or
                    ``(D) at the designation of the Secretary, in the 
                case of a State that does not operate or control any 
                institution that meets a definition under subparagraph 
                (A) or (C), a college or similarly defined and 
                structured academic entity--
                            ``(i) that was in existence on July 1, 
                        2021;
                            ``(ii) within a 4-year public institution 
                        of higher education; and
                            ``(iii) at which--
                                    ``(I) the highest degree awarded is 
                                an associate degree; or
                                    ``(II) an associate degree is the 
                                predominant degree awarded.
            ``(3) Dual or concurrent enrollment program.--The term 
        `dual or concurrent enrollment program' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary 
        Education Act of 1965.
            ``(4) Early college high school.--The term `early college 
        high school' has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of 
        the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
            ``(5) Eligible student.--The term `eligible student' means 
        a student who--
                    ``(A) is enrolled as an undergraduate student in an 
                eligible program (as defined in section 481(b)) at a 
                community college on not less than a half-time basis;
                    ``(B) in the case of a student who is enrolled in a 
                community college that charges different tuition rates 
                on the basis of in-State or in-district residency, 
                either--
                            ``(i) qualifies for in-State or in-district 
                        resident tuition at such community college; or
                            ``(ii) would qualify for such in-State or 
                        in-district resident tuition at such community 
                        college, but for the immigration status of such 
                        student;
                    ``(C) has not been enrolled (whether full-time or 
                less than full-time) for more than 6 semesters (or the 
                equivalent) for which the community college tuition and 
                fees of the student were set to $0 pursuant to section 
                788(a);
                    ``(D) is not enrolled in a dual or concurrent 
                enrollment program or early college high school; and
                    ``(E) in the case of a student who is a United 
                States citizen, has filed a Free Application for 
                Federal Student Aid described in section 483 for the 
                applicable award year for which the student is 
                enrolled.
            ``(6) Eligible tribal college or university.--The term 
        `eligible Tribal College or University' means--
                    ``(A) a 2-year Tribal College or University; or
                    ``(B) a degree-granting Tribal College or 
                University--
                            ``(i) at which the highest degree awarded 
                        is an associate degree; or
                            ``(ii) an associate degree is the 
                        predominant degree awarded.
            ``(7) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        `institution of higher education' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101.
            ``(8) Means-tested federal benefit program.--The term 
        `means-tested Federal benefit program' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 479.
            ``(9) Recognized postsecondary credential.--The term 
        `recognized postsecondary credential' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
        Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).
            ``(10) State fiscal support for higher education.--
                    ``(A) Inclusions.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        subparagraph (B), the term `State fiscal 
                        support for higher education', used with 
                        respect to a State for a fiscal year, means an 
                        amount that is equal to--
                                    ``(I) the gross amount of 
                                applicable State funds appropriated or 
                                dedicated, and expended by the State, 
                                including funds from lottery receipts, 
                                in the fiscal year, that are used to 
                                support institutions of higher 
                                education and student financial aid for 
                                higher education in the State; and
                                    ``(II) any funds described in 
                                clause (ii), if applicable.
                            ``(ii) Local funds.--In the case of a State 
                        that includes, as part of the State share under 
                        section 786(b)(2)(B) for an award year, funds 
                        provided to community colleges by local 
                        governments in such State for the purpose of 
                        carrying out this subpart, local funds provided 
                        to community colleges operated or controlled by 
                        such State for operating expenses (excluding 
                        capital expenses and research and development 
                        costs) shall be included in the calculation of 
                        the State fiscal support for higher education 
                        for such award year under clause (i).
                    ``(B) Exclusions.--State fiscal support for higher 
                education for a State for a fiscal year shall not 
                include--
                            ``(i) funds described in subparagraph (A) 
                        that are returned to the State;
                            ``(ii) State-appropriated funds derived 
                        from Federal sources, including funds provided 
                        under section 786(a) and section 795A(a)(2);
                            ``(iii) funds that are included in the 
                        State share under section 786(b), including 
                        funds included in the State share in accordance 
                        with paragraph (2)(A) of such section;
                            ``(iv) amounts that are portions of 
                        multiyear appropriations to be distributed over 
                        multiple years that are not to be spent for the 
                        year for which the calculation under this 
                        paragraph is being made, subject to 
                        subparagraph (C);
                            ``(v) tuition, fees, or other educational 
                        charges paid directly by a student to a public 
                        institution of higher education or to the 
                        State;
                            ``(vi) funds for--
                                    ``(I) financial aid to students 
                                attending, or operating expenses of--
                                            ``(aa) out-of-State 
                                        institutions of higher 
                                        education;
                                            ``(bb) proprietary 
                                        institutions of higher 
                                        education (as defined in 
                                        section 102(b));
                                            ``(cc) institutions of 
                                        higher education not accredited 
                                        by an agency or association 
                                        recognized by the Secretary 
                                        pursuant to section 496;
                                    ``(II) financial aid to students 
                                awarded predominantly on the basis of 
                                merit, including programs awarded on 
                                the basis of predicted or actual 
                                academic performance or assessments;
                                    ``(III) research and development; 
                                or
                                    ``(IV) hospitals, athletics, or 
                                other auxiliary enterprises;
                            ``(vii) corporate or other private 
                        donations directed to one or more institutions 
                        of higher education permitted to be expended by 
                        the State; or
                            ``(viii) any other funds that the Secretary 
                        determines shall not be included in the 
                        calculation of State fiscal support for higher 
                        education for such State.
                    ``(C) Adjustments for biennial appropriations.--The 
                Secretary shall take into consideration any adjustments 
                to the calculations under this paragraph that may be 
                required to accurately reflect State fiscal support for 
                higher education in States with biennial appropriation 
                cycles.
            ``(11) State fiscal support for higher education per full-
        time equivalent student.--The term `State fiscal support for 
        higher education per full-time equivalent student', when used 
        with respect to a State for a fiscal year, means the amount 
        that is equal to--
                    ``(A) the State fiscal support for higher education 
                for the previous fiscal year; divided by
                    ``(B) the number of full-time equivalent students 
                enrolled in public institutions of higher education in 
                such State for such previous fiscal year.
            ``(12) Tribal college or university.--The term `Tribal 
        College or University' has the meaning given such term in 
        section 316(b)(3).

``SEC. 792. SUNSET.

    ``(a) In General.--The authority to make grants under this subpart 
shall expire at the end of award year 2027-2028.
    ``(b) Inapplicability of GEPA Contingent Extension of Programs.--
Section 422 of the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1226a) 
shall not apply to this subpart.

``SEC. 793. APPROPRIATION.

    ``In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, such sums as may be necessary, to remain available until 
September 30, 2030, for carrying out this subpart.''.

SEC. 20022. RETENTION AND COMPLETION GRANTS.

    Part F of title VII of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1133 et seq.), as added by section 20021, is further amended by adding 
at the end the following:

              ``Subpart 2--Retention and Completion Grants

``SEC. 795. RETENTION AND COMPLETION GRANTS.

    ``Beginning with award year 2023-2024, from amounts appropriated to 
carry out this subpart for any fiscal year, the Secretary shall carry 
out a grant program to make grants (which shall be known as `retention 
and completion grants') to eligible States and Tribal Colleges and 
Universities to enable the eligible States and Tribal Colleges and 
Universities to carry out the activities described in section 795D.

``SEC. 795A. GRANT AMOUNTS.

    ``(a) Reservation.--From the amounts appropriated to carry out this 
subpart, the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) reserve an amount equal to 3 percent of such amounts 
        to allocate grants to Tribal Colleges and Universities, which 
        shall be distributed according to the formula in section 
        316(d)(3)(B), to carry out the activities described in section 
        795D(b)(1) and implement reforms or practices that meet an 
        evidence tier defined in section 795E(2); and
            ``(2) use the amount remaining after the allocation under 
        paragraph (1) to award competitive grants to eligible States 
        that have submitted applications under section 795B.
    ``(b) Supplement, Not Supplant.--Grant funds awarded under this 
subpart shall be used to supplement, and not supplant, other Federal, 
State, tribal, and local funds that would otherwise be expended to 
carry out activities assisted under this subpart.
    ``(c) Grant Period.--Subject to the requirements under section 
795C, a grant under this subpart shall be for a period of not more than 
7 years.

``SEC. 795B. APPLICATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--As a condition of receiving a grant under this 
subpart, an eligible State shall submit an application to the Secretary 
that includes--
            ``(1) a description of--
                    ``(A) how the eligible State will use the funds to 
                implement evidence-based institutional reforms or 
                practices at institutions of higher education in such 
                State to improve student outcomes and meet the 
                requirements of section 795D(b)(2), including--
                            ``(i) how such eligible State will use 
                        grant funds to implement 1 or more reforms or 
                        practices described in section 795D(b)(1) at 
                        such institutions;
                            ``(ii) the extent to which each reform or 
                        practice to be implemented meets an evidence 
                        tier defined in section 795E(2); and
                            ``(iii) annual implementation benchmarks 
                        that the eligible State will use to track 
                        progress in implementing such reforms or 
                        practices;
                    ``(B) how such eligible State will increase support 
                for the public institutions of higher education 
                identified in accordance with paragraph (2)(B); and
                    ``(C) the improvements the eligible State 
                anticipates in student outcomes, including improvements 
                in retention, completion, or transfer rates or labor 
                market outcomes, or a combination of such student 
                outcomes, disaggregated by student demographics 
                including, at a minimum, race, ethnicity, income, 
                disability status, remediation, and status as a first 
                generation college student;
            ``(2)(A) with respect to each State public institution of 
        higher education--
                    ``(i) the total per-student funding;
                    ``(ii) the amount of per-student funding that is 
                from State-appropriated funds; and
                    ``(iii) the share of students at the institution 
                who are students of color, low-income students, 
                students with disabilities, students in need of 
                remediation, or first generation college students; and
                    ``(B) an identification of public institutions of 
                higher education in the eligible State that received 
                less funding on a per-student basis as described in 
                clause (i) or (ii), or both, of subparagraph (A), and 
                are serving disproportionately high shares of students 
                of color, low-income students, students with 
                disabilities, students in need of remediation, or first 
                generation college students;
            ``(3) a description of the steps the eligible State will 
        take to ensure the sustainability of the institutional reforms 
        or practices identified in paragraph (1)(A); and
            ``(4) a description of how the eligible State will evaluate 
        the effectiveness of activities funded under this subpart, 
        including how such eligible State will assess impacts on 
        student outcomes, including retention, transfer, and completion 
        rates and labor market outcomes.
    ``(b) Priorities.--In awarding funds under this subpart, the 
Secretary shall give priority to eligible States that do one or more of 
the following:
            ``(1) Propose to use a significant share of grant funds for 
        reforms or practices that meet an evidence tier defined in 
        section 795E(2).
            ``(2) Propose to use a significant share of grant funds to 
        improve retention, transfer, and completion rates and labor 
        market outcomes among students of color, low-income students, 
        students with disabilities, students in need of remediation, 
        first generation college students, and other underserved 
        student populations in such State.
            ``(3) Propose to use a significant share of grant funds to 
        improve retention, transfer, and completion rates and labor 
        market outcomes among students attending institutions 
        identified in subsection (a)(2)(B).
            ``(4) Demonstrate a commitment to supporting activities 
        funded under this subpart with non-Federal funds.

``SEC. 795C. PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.

    ``(a) In General.--As a condition of continuing to receive funds 
under this subpart, for each year in which an eligible State 
participates in the program under this subpart, the eligible State 
shall submit to the Secretary the eligible State's progress--
            ``(1) in meeting the annual implementation benchmarks 
        included in the application of such eligible State under 
        section 795B(a)(1)(A)(iii);
            ``(2) in increasing funding for the public institutions of 
        higher education identified in accordance with section 
        795B(a)(2)(B), as included in the application of such eligible 
        State under section 795B(a)(1)(B); and
            ``(3) in improving the student outcomes identified by the 
        State under section 795B(a)(1)(C).
    ``(b) Eligibility for Benefits.--No individual shall be determined 
to be ineligible to receive benefits provided under this subpart 
(including services and other aid provided under this subpart) on the 
basis of citizenship, alienage, or immigration status.

``SEC. 795D. USES OF FUNDS.

    ``(a) General Requirement for States.--Except as provided in 
subsection (c), an eligible State shall use a grant under this subpart 
only to carry out activities described in the application for such year 
under section 795B(a)(1).
    ``(b) Evidence-based Institutional Reforms or Practices.--
            ``(1) In general.--An eligible State or Tribal College or 
        University receiving a grant under this subpart shall, directly 
        or in collaboration with institutions of higher education and 
        other non-profit organizations, use the grant funds to 
        implement one or more of the following evidence-based 
        institutional reforms or practices:
                    ``(A) Providing comprehensive academic, career, and 
                student support services, including mentoring, 
                advising, case management services, or career pathway 
                navigation.
                    ``(B) Providing assistance in applying for and 
                accessing direct support services, means-tested Federal 
                benefit programs, or similar State, tribal, or local 
                benefit programs.
                    ``(C) Providing emergency financial aid grants to 
                students for unexpected expenses and to meet basic 
                needs.
                    ``(D) Providing accelerated learning opportunities, 
                including dual or concurrent enrollment programs and 
                early college high school programs, and pathways to 
                graduate and professional degree programs, and 
                reforming course scheduling and credit awarding 
                policies.
                    ``(E) Reforming remedial and developmental 
                education.
                    ``(F) Utilizing career pathways, including through 
                building capacity for career and technical education as 
                defined in section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
                Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2302), 
                programs of study as defined in such section, or degree 
                pathways.
                    ``(G) Improving transfer pathways between community 
                colleges and four-year institutions of higher education 
                in the eligible State, or, in the case of a Tribal 
                College or University, between the Tribal College or 
                University and other institutions of higher education.
            ``(2) State allocation minimums with respect to evidence 
        tiers.--An eligible State receiving a grant under this subpart 
        shall use not less than 30 percent of the grant funds for 
        evidence-based reforms or practices that meet an evidence tier 
        defined in section 795E(2), of which at least two-thirds shall 
        be used for evidence-based reforms or practices that meet 
        evidence tier 1.
    ``(c) Use of Funds for Administrative Purposes.--An eligible State 
or Tribal College or University that receives a grant under this 
subpart may use--
            ``(1) not more than 3 percent of such grant for 
        administrative purposes relating to the grant under this 
        subpart; and
            ``(2) not more than 3 percent of such grant to evaluate the 
        effectiveness of activities carried out under this subpart.

``SEC. 795E. DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this subpart:
            ``(1) Eligible state.--The term `eligible State' means a 
        State that is a recipient of a grant under subpart 1.
            ``(2) Evidence tiers.--
                    ``(A) Evidence tier 1.--The term `evidence tier 1', 
                when used with respect to a reform or practice, means a 
                reform or practice that meets the criteria for 
                receiving an expansion grant from the education 
                innovation and research program under section 4611 of 
                the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
                U.S.C. 7261), as determined by the Secretary in 
                accordance with such section.
                    ``(B) Evidence tier 2.--The term `evidence tier 2', 
                when used with respect to a reform or practice, means a 
                reform that meets the criteria for receiving a mid-
                phase grant from the education innovation and research 
                program under section 4611 of the Elementary and 
                Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7261), as 
                determined by the Secretary in accordance with such 
                section.
            ``(3) First generation college student.--The term `first 
        generation college student' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 402A(h).
            ``(4) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        `institution of higher education' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101.
            ``(5) Tribal college or university.--The term `Tribal 
        College or University' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 316(b)(3).

``SEC. 795F. SUNSET.

    ``(a) In General.--The authority to make grants under this subpart 
shall expire at the end of award year 2029-2030.
    ``(b) Inapplicability of GEPA Contingent Extension of Programs.--
Section 422 of the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1226a) 
shall not apply to this subpart.

``SEC. 795G. APPROPRIATION.

    ``In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $9,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2030, for carrying out this subpart.''.

SEC. 20023. TUITION ASSISTANCE FOR STUDENTS AT HISTORICALLY BLACK 
              COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES, TRIBAL COLLEGES AND 
              UNIVERSITIES, AND MINORITY-SERVING INSTITUTIONS.

    Part F of title VII of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1133 et seq.), as added and amended by this Act, is further amended by 
adding at the end the following:

  ``Subpart 3--Tuition Assistance for Students at Historically Black 
   Colleges and Universities, Tribal Colleges and Universities, and 
                     Minority-serving Institutions

``SEC. 796. TUITION ASSISTANCE FOR HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND 
              UNIVERSITIES.

    ``Beginning with award year 2023-2024, from amounts appropriated to 
carry out this subpart for any fiscal year, the Secretary shall award 
grants to participating historically Black colleges and universities 
that are eligible institutions.

``SEC. 796A. TUITION ASSISTANCE FOR TRIBAL COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES.

    ``Beginning with award year 2023-2024, from amounts appropriated to 
carry out this subpart for any fiscal year, the Secretary shall award 
grants to participating Tribal Colleges and Universities that are 
eligible institutions.

``SEC. 796B. TUITION ASSISTANCE FOR ALASKA NATIVE-SERVING INSTITUTIONS, 
              ASIAN AMERICAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PACIFIC ISLANDER-
              SERVING INSTITUTIONS, HISPANIC-SERVING INSTITUTIONS, 
              NATIVE AMERICAN-SERVING NONTRIBAL INSTITUTIONS, NATIVE 
              HAWAIIAN-SERVING INSTITUTIONS, AND PREDOMINANTLY BLACK 
              INSTITUTIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--Beginning with award year 2023-2024, from 
amounts appropriated to carry out this subpart for any fiscal year, the 
Secretary shall award grants to participating Alaska Native-serving 
institutions, Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-
serving institutions, Hispanic-serving institutions, Native American-
serving nontribal institutions, Native Hawaiian-serving institutions, 
and Predominantly Black institutions that are eligible institutions.
    ``(b) Status of Institution.--An institution's status as an 
eligible institution described in subsection (a) shall--
            ``(1) be based on the most recent data available; and
            ``(2) be reviewed annually to ensure that the institution 
        continues to meet the requirements for status as an institution 
        described in subsection (a).

``SEC. 796C. GRANT TERMS.

    ``(a) Grant Amount.--
            ``(1) In general.--For each year for which an eligible 
        institution participates in the grant program under this 
        subpart, such eligible institution shall receive a grant in an 
        amount equal to the product of--
                    ``(A) the number of eligible students enrolled at 
                the institution for such year; and
                    ``(B)(i) for the 2023-2024 award year, the median 
                resident community college tuition and fees per student 
                in all States, not weighted for enrollment, for the 
                most recent award year for which data are available; 
                and
                    ``(ii) for the 2024-2025 award year and each 
                subsequent award year, the amount determined under this 
                subparagraph for the preceding award year, increased by 
                the lesser of--
                            ``(I) a percentage equal to the estimated 
                        percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index 
                        (as determined by the Secretary) since the date 
                        of such determination; or
                            ``(II) 3 percent.
            ``(2) First-year tuition and fees.--As a condition of 
        receiving a grant under this subpart, an eligible institution 
        shall not increase tuition and fees during the first year of 
        participation in the grant program under this subpart at a rate 
        greater than the average annual increase at the eligible 
        institution in the previous 5 years.
            ``(3) Students enrolled less than full-time.--The Secretary 
        shall develop and implement a formula for making adjustments to 
        grant amounts under this subpart based on the number of 
        eligible students at each eligible institution enrolled less 
        than full-time and the associated tuition and fees charged to 
        such students in proportion to the degree to which each such 
        student is not attending on a full-time basis.
            ``(4) Data adjustments.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
                process through which each eligible institution that 
                participates in the program under this section--
                            ``(i) provides the necessary eligible 
                        student enrollment data at the start of the 
                        award year; and
                            ``(ii) initially receives grant funds, as 
                        calculated under this subsection, based on such 
                        data.
                    ``(B) Adjustment of grant amount.--For each year 
                for which an eligible institution receives a grant 
                under this subpart, the Secretary shall, once final 
                enrollment data for such year are available--
                            ``(i) in consultation with the eligible 
                        institution concerned, determine the actual 
                        number of eligible students for the year 
                        covered by the grant; and
                            ``(ii) adjust the grant amount received by 
                        the eligible institution to reflect the actual 
                        number of eligible students, which may include 
                        applying the relevant adjustment to such grant 
                        amount in the subsequent award year.
    ``(b) Duplicate Grants Prohibited.--An institution shall not 
receive more than one grant at a time under this subpart.
    ``(c) Application.--An eligible institution that desires a grant 
under this subpart shall submit an application to the Secretary that 
includes--
            ``(1) an assurance that the institution commits to 
        maintaining, expanding, or adopting and implementing evidence-
        based institutional reforms or practices to improve student 
        outcomes, which shall include one or more of the practices 
        described in section 795D(b)(1); and
            ``(2) in the case of an eligible institution that enrolls 
        students who transfer from another institution, an assurance 
        that the institution--
                    ``(A) commits to increasing the transferability of 
                individual courses within certificate or associate 
                programs offered by community colleges in the State to 
                related baccalaureate programs offered by such 
                institution to maximize the transferability of credits 
                for students who transfer before completing an 
                associate degree;
                    ``(B) will ensure that students attending community 
                colleges in the State have access to comprehensive 
                counseling and other easily accessible tools regarding 
                the process for transferring to such institution; and
                    ``(C) has a formal, statewide articulation 
                agreement with community colleges in the State in which 
                such institution operates that, at a minimum, ensures 
                that associate degrees awarded by community colleges in 
                the State are fully transferable to, and credited as, 
                the first 2 years of related baccalaureate programs at 
                such institution.
    ``(d) Use of Funds.--
            ``(1) Required use.--Funds awarded under this subpart to a 
        participating eligible institution shall be used to reduce 
        tuition and fees for eligible students by an amount that is not 
        less than the minimum per-student amount described in paragraph 
        (2), unless the actual cost of tuition and fees at such 
        institution is not more than such per-student amount, in which 
        case such institution shall use such funds to waive all such 
        tuition and fees charged to such students and use any remaining 
        funds in accordance with paragraph (3).
            ``(2) Minimum per-student amount.--The minimum per-student 
        amount described in this paragraph shall be equal to--
                    ``(A) for the 2023-2024 award year, the median 
                resident community college tuition and fees per student 
                in all States, not weighted for enrollment, for the 
                most recent award year for which data are available; 
                and
                    ``(B) for the 2024-2025 award year and each 
                subsequent award year, the amount determined under this 
                paragraph for the preceding award year, increased by 
                the lesser of--
                            ``(i) a percentage equal to the estimated 
                        percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index 
                        (as determined by the Secretary) since the date 
                        of such determination; or
                            ``(ii) 3 percent.
            ``(3) Additional uses.--A participating eligible 
        institution shall use any grant funds remaining after meeting 
        the requirements of paragraph (1) to provide financial aid to 
        eligible students that may be used by such students to pay for 
        any component of cost of attendance other than tuition and 
        fees, which may include emergency financial aid grants.
    ``(e) Supplement, Not Supplant.--Funds made available to carry out 
this subpart shall be used to supplement, and not supplant, other 
Federal, State, tribal, and local funds that would otherwise be 
expended to carry out activities under this subpart.
    ``(f) Sixty Credits.--Funds under this subpart may only be used to 
waive or reduce tuition and fees for the first 60 credits for which an 
eligible student is enrolled in the participating eligible institution 
except that, when calculating the number of credits in which the 
student has been enrolled for the purpose of carrying out this 
subpart--
            ``(1) no student shall be considered to have been enrolled 
        for more than 12 credits per semester (or the equivalent) 
        during the period for which the student is receiving benefits 
        under this subpart; and
            ``(2) the participating eligible institution may exclude 
        any credits that a student enrolled in and did not complete at 
        such institution if the institution determines that such 
        exclusion would be in the best interest of the student, except 
        that an institution may exclude no more than 15 credits under 
        this paragraph for each individual student.
    ``(g) Eligibility for Benefits.--No individual shall be determined 
to be ineligible to receive benefits provided under this subpart 
(including reduction of tuition and fees and other aid provided under 
this subpart) on the basis of citizenship, alienage, or immigration 
status.

``SEC. 796D. DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this subpart:
            ``(1) Alaska native-serving institution.--The term `Alaska 
        Native-serving institution' has the meaning given such term in 
        section 317(b).
            ``(2) Asian american and native american pacific islander-
        serving institution.--The term `Asian American and Native 
        American Pacific Islander-serving institution' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 371(c).
            ``(3) Cost of attendance.--The term `cost of attendance' 
        has the meaning given such term in section 472.
            ``(4) Eligible institution.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `eligible institution' 
                means a public or nonprofit 4-year institution of 
                higher education that has an undergraduate student body 
                of which not less than 35 percent are low-income 
                students.
                    ``(B) Continuing eligibility.--The Secretary's 
                determination of whether an institution meets the 
                requirement under subparagraph (A) shall be based on 
                the most recent data available, and shall be reviewed 
                annually to ensure that the institution continues to 
                meet the requirements for participation.
            ``(5) Eligible student.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `eligible student' 
                means a student, regardless of age, who--
                            ``(i) is enrolled as an undergraduate 
                        student in an eligible program (as defined in 
                        section 481(b)) at a participating eligible 
                        institution, on at least a half-time basis;
                            ``(ii) is a low-income student;
                            ``(iii) has been enrolled at such 
                        participating eligible institution under this 
                        subpart for not more than 60 credits, subject 
                        to section 796C(f);
                            ``(iv) has not been enrolled (whether full-
                        time or less than full-time) for more than 6 
                        semesters (or the equivalent) for which the 
                        student received a benefit under this subpart;
                            ``(v) is not enrolled in a dual or 
                        concurrent enrollment program or early college 
                        high school;
                            ``(vi) has not completed an undergraduate 
                        baccalaureate course of study; and
                            ``(vii) in the case of a student who is a 
                        United States citizen, has filed a Free 
                        Application for Federal Student Aid described 
                        in section 483 for the applicable award year 
                        for which the student is enrolled.
                    ``(B) Continued eligibility.--In the case of an 
                eligible student who receives assistance under this 
                subpart and attends an institution that loses status as 
                an eligible institution or as an institution described 
                in section 796B(a), the student may continue to receive 
                such assistance for the period for which the student 
                would have been eligible if the institution at which 
                they are enrolled had retained such status.
            ``(6) Hispanic-serving institution.--The term `Hispanic-
        serving institution' has the meaning given such term in section 
        502.
            ``(7) Historically black college or university.--The term 
        `historically Black college or university' means a part B 
        institution as defined in section 322.
            ``(8) Low-income student.--The term `low-income student' 
        means a student who meets the financial eligibility criteria 
        for receiving a Federal Pell Grant under section 401, 
        regardless of whether such student is otherwise eligible to 
        receive such Federal Pell Grant.
            ``(9) Native american-serving nontribal institution.--The 
        term `Native American-serving nontribal institution' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 319.
            ``(10) Native hawaiian-serving institution.--The term 
        `Native Hawaiian-serving institution' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 317(b).
            ``(11) Predominantly black institution.--The term 
        `Predominantly Black institution' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 371(c).
            ``(12) Tribal college or university.--The term `Tribal 
        College or University' has the meaning given such term in 
        section 316(b)(3).

``SEC. 796E. SUNSET.

    ``(a) In General.--The authority to make grants under this subpart 
shall expire at the end of award year 2029-2030.
    ``(b) Inapplicability of GEPA Contingent Extension of Programs.--
Section 422 of the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1226a) 
shall not apply to this subpart.

``SEC. 796F. APPROPRIATION.

    ``In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, such sums as may be necessary, to remain available until 
September 30, 2030, for carrying out this subpart.''.

SEC. 20024. NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AMERICAN SAMOA, UNITED STATES 
              VIRGIN ISLANDS, AND GUAM COLLEGE ACCESS.

    Part F of title VII of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1133 et seq.), as added and amended by this Act, is further amended by 
adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 798. NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AMERICAN SAMOA, UNITED STATES 
              VIRGIN ISLANDS, AND GUAM COLLEGE ACCESS GRANTS.

    ``(a) Grants.--
            ``(1) Grant amounts.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Beginning with award year 2023-
                2024, from amounts appropriated to carry out this 
                section, the Secretary shall provide such sums as may 
                be necessary to the Governors of each outlying area for 
                such Governors to award grants to eligible institutions 
                that enroll eligible students to pay the difference 
                between the tuition and fees charged for in-State 
                students and the tuition and fees charged for out-of-
                State students on behalf of each eligible student 
                enrolled in the eligible institution.
                    ``(B) Maximum student amounts.--The amount paid on 
                behalf of an eligible student under this section shall 
                be--
                            ``(i) not more than $15,000 for any one 
                        award year (as defined in section 481); and
                            ``(ii) not more than $75,000 in the 
                        aggregate.
                    ``(C) Proration.--The Governor shall prorate 
                payments under this section with respect to eligible 
                students who attend an eligible institution on less 
                than a full-time basis.
            ``(2) Application.--Each eligible student desiring a 
        payment under this section shall submit an application to the 
        eligible institution at which such student is enrolled or plans 
        to enroll.
            ``(3) Eligibility for benefits.--No individual shall be 
        determined to be ineligible to receive benefits provided under 
        this subpart (including tuition payments and other aid provided 
        under this subpart) on the basis of citizenship, alienage, or 
        immigration status.
    ``(b) Administration of Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each Governor shall carry out the 
        program under this section in consultation with the Secretary. 
        Each Governor may enter into a grant, contract, or cooperative 
        agreement with another public or private entity to administer 
        the program under this section.
            ``(2) Memorandum of agreement.--Each Governor and the 
        Secretary shall enter into a memorandum of agreement that 
        describes--
                    ``(A) the manner in which the Governor will consult 
                with the Secretary with respect to administering the 
                program under this section; and
                    ``(B) any technical or other assistance to be 
                provided to the Governor by the Secretary for purposes 
                of administering the program under this section (which 
                may include access to the information in the Free 
                Application for Federal Student Aid described in 
                section 483).
            ``(3) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
        construed to require an institution of higher education to 
        alter the institution's admissions policies or standards in any 
        manner to enable an eligible student to enroll in the 
        institution.
            ``(4) Grant authority.--The authority to make grants under 
        this section shall expire at the end of award year 2029-2030.
    ``(c) Inapplicability of GEPA Contingent Extension of Programs.--
Section 422 of the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1226a) 
shall not apply to this section.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Eligible institution.--The term `eligible 
        institution' means an institution that--
                    ``(A) is a public four-year institution of higher 
                education located in one of the several States of the 
                United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, 
                or an outlying area;
                    ``(B) is eligible to participate in the student 
                financial assistance programs under title IV; and
                    ``(C) enters into an agreement with the Governor of 
                an outlying area, or with two or more of such Governors 
                (except that such institution may not enter into an 
                agreement with the Governor of the outlying area in 
                which such institution is located), containing such 
                conditions as each Governor may specify, including a 
                requirement that the institution use the funds made 
                available under this section to supplement and not 
                supplant assistance that otherwise would be provided to 
                eligible students from outlying areas.
            ``(2) Eligible student.--The term `eligible student' means 
        an individual who--
                    ``(A) was domiciled in an outlying area for not 
                less than 12 consecutive months preceding the 
                commencement of the freshman year at an institution of 
                higher education;
                    ``(B) has not completed an undergraduate 
                baccalaureate course of study;
                    ``(C) begins the individual's course of study at an 
                eligible institution within 3 calendar years (excluding 
                any period of service on active duty in the Armed 
                Forces or service under the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 
                2501 et seq.) or subtitle D of title I of the National 
                and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12571 et 
                seq.)) of--
                            ``(i) graduation from secondary school, or 
                        obtaining the recognized equivalent of a 
                        secondary school diploma; or
                            ``(ii) transfer from an institution of 
                        higher education located in an outlying area 
                        (including transfer following the completion of 
                        an associate degree or certificate at such 
                        institution); and
                    ``(D) is enrolled or accepted for enrollment, on at 
                least a half-time basis, in a baccalaureate degree or 
                other program (including a program of study abroad 
                approved for credit by the institution at which such 
                student is enrolled) leading to a recognized 
                educational credential at an eligible institution.
            ``(3) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        `institution of higher education' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101.
            ``(4) Governor.--The term `Governor' means the Governor of 
        an outlying area.
            ``(5) Outlying area.--The term `outlying area' means the 
        Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, the United States 
        Virgin Islands, and Guam.
    ``(e) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be necessary, to 
remain available until September 30, 2030, for carrying out this 
section.''.
