---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Part 7 - Higher Education

## SEC. 137701. CREDIT FOR PUBLIC UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) In General.--Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, 
as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 45AA. PUBLIC UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE CREDIT.

    ``(a) Allowance of Credit.--For purposes of section 38, the public 
university research infrastructure credit determined under this section 
for a taxable year is an amount equal to 40 percent of the qualified 
cash contributions made by a taxpayer during such taxable year.
    ``(b) Qualified Cash Contribution.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Defined.--For purposes of subsection (a), the 
                qualified cash contribution for any taxable year is the 
                aggregate amount contributed in cash by a taxpayer 
                during such taxable year to a certified educational 
                institution in connection with a qualifying project 
                that, but for this section, would be treated as a 
                charitable contribution for purposes of section 170(c).
                    ``(B) Qualified cash contributions taken into 
                account for purposes of charitable contribution 
                limitations.--Any qualified cash contributions made by 
                a taxpayer under this section shall be taken into 
                account for purposes of determining the percentage 
                limitations under section 170(b).
            ``(2) Designation required.--A contribution shall only be 
        treated as a qualified cash contribution to the extent that it 
        is designated as such by a certified educational institution 
        under subsection (d).
    ``(c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Qualifying project.--The term `qualifying project' 
        means a project to purchase, construct, or improve research 
        infrastructure property.
            ``(2) Research infrastructure property.--The term `research 
        infrastructure property' means any portion of a property, 
        building, or structure of an eligible educational institution, 
        or any land associated with such property, building, or 
        structure, that is used for research.
            ``(3) Eligible educational institution.--The term `eligible 
        educational institution' means--
                    ``(A) an institution of higher education (as such 
                term is defined in section 101 or 102(c) of the Higher 
                Education Act of 1965) that is a college or university 
                described in section 511(a)(2)(B), or
                    ``(B) an organization described in section 
                170(b)(1)(A)(iv) or section 509(a)(3) to which 
                authority has been delegated by an institution 
                described in subparagraph (A) for purposes of applying 
                for or administering credit amounts on behalf of such 
                institution.
            ``(4) Certified educational institution.--The term 
        `certified educational institution' means an eligible 
        educational institution which has been allocated a credit 
        amount for a qualifying project and--
                    ``(A) has received a certification for such project 
                under subsection (d)(2), and
                    ``(B) designates credit amounts to taxpayers for 
                qualifying cash contributions toward such project under 
                subsection (d)(4).
    ``(d) Qualifying University Research Infrastructure Program.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after 
                the date of the enactment of this section, the 
                Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary of 
                Education, shall establish a program to--
                            ``(i) certify and allocate credit amounts 
                        for qualifying projects to eligible educational 
                        institutions, and
                            ``(ii) allow certified educational 
                        institutions to designate cash contributions 
                        for qualifying projects of such certified 
                        educational institutions as qualified cash 
                        contributions.
                    ``(B) Limitations.--
                            ``(i) Allocation limitation per 
                        institution.--The credit amounts allocated to a 
                        certified educational institution under 
                        subparagraph (A)(i) for all projects shall not 
                        exceed $50,000,000 per calendar year.
                            ``(ii) Overall allocation limitation.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--The total amount 
                                of qualifying project credit amounts 
                                that may be allocated under 
                                subparagraph (A)(i) shall not exceed--
                                            ``(aa) $500,000,000 for 
                                        each of calendar years 2022, 
                                        2023, 2024, 2025, and 2026, and
                                            ``(bb) $0 for each 
                                        subsequent year.
                                    ``(II) Rollover of unallocated 
                                credit amounts.--Any credit amounts 
                                described in subclause (I) that are 
                                unallocated during a calendar year 
                                shall be carried to the succeeding 
                                calendar year and added to the 
                                limitation allowable under such 
                                subclause for such succeeding calendar 
                                year.
                            ``(iii) Designation limitation.--The 
                        aggregate amount of cash contributions which 
                        are designated by a certified educational 
                        institution as qualifying cash contributions 
                        with respect to any qualifying project shall 
                        not exceed 250 percent of the credit amount 
                        allocated to such certified educational 
                        institution for a qualifying project under 
                        subparagraph (A)(i).
            ``(2) Certification application.--Each eligible educational 
        institution which applies for certification of a project under 
        this paragraph shall submit an application in such time, form, 
        and manner as the Secretary may require.
            ``(3) Selection criteria for allocations to eligible 
        educational institutions.--The Secretary, after consultation 
        with the Secretary of Education, shall select applications from 
        eligible educational institutions--
                    ``(A) based on the extent of the expected expansion 
                of an eligible educational institution's targeted 
                research within disciplines in science, mathematics, 
                engineering, and technology, and
                    ``(B) in a manner that ensures consideration is 
                given to eligible educational institutions with full-
                time student populations of less than 12,000.
            ``(4) Designation of qualified cash contributions to 
        taxpayers.--The Secretary, after consultation with the 
        Secretary of Education, shall establish a process by which 
        certified educational institutions shall designate cash 
        contributions to such institutions as qualified cash 
        contributions.
            ``(5) Disclosure of allocations and designations.--
                    ``(A) Allocations.--The Secretary shall, upon 
                allocating credit amounts to an applicant under this 
                subsection, publicly disclose the identity of the 
                applicant and the credit amount allocated to such 
                applicant.
                    ``(B) Designations.--Each certified educational 
                institution shall, upon designating contributions of a 
                taxpayer as qualified cash contributions under this 
                subsection, publicly disclose the identity of the 
                taxpayer and the amount of contributions designated in 
                such time, form, and manner as the Secretary may 
                require.
    ``(e) Regulations and Guidance.--The Secretary, after consultation 
with the Secretary of Education when applicable, shall prescribe such 
regulations and guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry 
out the purposes of this section, including regulations for--
            ``(1) prevention of abuse,
            ``(2) establishment of reporting requirements,
            ``(3) establishment of selection criteria for applications, 
        and
            ``(4) disclosure of allocations.
    ``(f) Penalty for Noncompliance.--
            ``(1) In general.--If at any time during the 5-year period 
        beginning on the date of the allocation of credit amounts to a 
        certified educational institution under subsection (d)(1)(A)(i) 
        there is a noncompliance event with respect to such credit 
        amounts, then the following rules shall apply:
                    ``(A) General rule.--Any cash contribution 
                designated as a qualifying cash contribution with 
                respect to a qualifying project for which such credit 
                amounts were allocated under subsection (d)(1)(A)(ii) 
                shall be treated as unrelated business taxable income 
                (as defined in section 512) of such certified 
                educational institution.
                    ``(B) Rule for unused credit amounts.--In the case 
                of unused credit amounts described under paragraph 
                (2)(A) and identified pursuant to subsection (g), the 
                Secretary shall reallocate any portion of such unused 
                credit amounts to certified educational institutions in 
                lieu of imposing the general rule under subparagraph 
                (A).
            ``(2) Noncompliance event.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `noncompliance event' means, with respect 
        to a credit amount allocated to a certified educational 
        institution--
                    ``(A) cash contributions equaling the amount of 
                such credit amount are not designated as qualifying 
                cash contributions within 2 years after December 31 of 
                the year such credit amount is allocated,
                    ``(B) a qualifying project with respect to which 
                such credit amount was allocated is not placed in 
                service within either--
                            ``(i) 4 years after December 31 of the year 
                        such credit amount is allocated, or
                            ``(ii) a period of time that the Secretary 
                        determines is appropriate, or
                    ``(C) the research infrastructure property placed 
                in service as part of a qualifying project with respect 
                to which such credit amount was allocated ceases to be 
                used for research within five years after such property 
                is placed in service.
    ``(g) Review and Reallocation of Credit Amounts.--
            ``(1) Review.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Secretary shall review the 
        credit amounts allocated under this section as of such date.
            ``(2) Reallocation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may reallocate 
                credit amounts allocated under this section if the 
                Secretary determines, as of the date of the review in 
                paragraph (1), that such credit amounts are subject to 
                a noncompliance event.
                    ``(B) Additional program.--If the Secretary 
                determines that credits under this section are 
                available for reallocation pursuant to the requirements 
                set forth in subparagraph (A), the Secretary is 
                authorized to conduct an additional program for 
                applications for certification.
                    ``(C) Deadline for reallocation.--The Secretary 
                shall not certify any project, or reallocate any credit 
                amount, pursuant to this paragraph after December 31, 
                2031.
    ``(h) Denial of Double Benefit.--No credit or deduction shall be 
allowed under any other provision of this chapter for any qualified 
cash contribution for which a credit is allowed under this section.
    ``(i) Rule for Trusts and Estates.--For purposes of this section, 
rules similar to the rules of subsection (d) of section 52 shall apply.
    ``(j) Termination.--This section shall not apply to qualified cash 
contributions made after December 31, 2033.''.
    (b) Credit Made Part of General Business Credit.--Subsection (b) of 
section 38, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is 
amended by striking ``plus'' at the end of paragraph (38), by striking 
the period at the end of paragraph (39) and inserting ``, plus'', and 
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(43) the public university research infrastructure credit 
        determined under section 45AA.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subpart D of 
part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, as amended by the preceding 
provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``Sec. 45AA. Public university research infrastructure credit.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to qualified cash contributions made after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 137702. MODIFICATION OF EXCISE TAX ON INVESTMENT INCOME OF PRIVATE 
              COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES.

    (a) Phaseout of Investment Income Excise Tax for Private Colleges 
and Universities Providing Sufficient Grants and Scholarships.--Section 
4968 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Phaseout for Institutions Providing Qualified Aid.--
            ``(1) In general.--The amount of tax imposed by subsection 
        (a) (determined without regard to this subsection) shall be 
        reduced (but not below zero) by the amount which bears the same 
        ratio to such amount of tax (as so determined) as--
                    ``(A) the excess (if any) of--
                            ``(i) the aggregate amount of qualified aid 
                        awards provided by the institution to its 
                        first-time, full-time undergraduate students 
                        for academic periods beginning during the 
                        taxable year, over
                            ``(ii) an amount equal to 20 percent of the 
                        aggregate undergraduate tuition and fees 
                        received by the institution from first-time, 
                        full-time undergraduate students for such 
                        academic periods, bears to
                    ``(B) an amount equal to 13 percent of such 
                aggregate undergraduate tuition and fees so received.
            ``(2) Institution must meet reporting requirement.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to 
                an applicable educational institution for a taxable 
                year unless such institution furnishes to the 
                Secretary, and makes widely available, a statement 
                detailing the average aggregate amount of Federal 
                student loans received by a student for attendance at 
                the institution, averaged among each of the following 
                groups of first-time, full-time undergraduate students 
                who during the taxable year completed a course of study 
                for which the institution awarded a baccalaureate 
                degree:
                            ``(i) All such students.
                            ``(ii) The students who have been awarded a 
                        Federal Pell Grant under subpart 1 of part A of 
                        title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
                        for attendance at the institution.
                            ``(iii) The students who received work-
                        study assistance under part C of title IV of 
                        such Act for attendance at such institution.
                            ``(iv) The students who were provided such 
                        Federal student loans.
                    ``(B) Form and manner for report.--Such statement 
                shall be furnished at such time and in such form and 
                manner, and made widely available, under such 
                regulations or guidance as the Secretary may prescribe.
                    ``(C) Federal student loans.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, the term `Federal student loans' means a 
                loan made under part D of title IV of the Higher 
                Education Act of 1965, except such term does not 
                include a Federal Direct PLUS Loan made on behalf of a 
                dependent student.
            ``(3) Other definitions.--For purposes of this subsection--
                    ``(A) First-time, full-time undergraduate 
                student.--The term `first-time, full-time undergraduate 
                student' shall have the same meaning as when used in 
                section 132 of the Higher Education Act of 1965.
                    ``(B) Qualified aid awards.--The term `qualified 
                aid awards' means, with respect to any applicable 
                educational institution, grants and scholarships to the 
                extent used for undergraduate tuition and fees.
                    ``(C) Undergraduate tuition and fees.--The term 
                `undergraduate tuition and fees' means, with respect to 
                any institution, the tuition and fees required for the 
                enrollment or attendance of a student as an 
                undergraduate student at the institution.''.
    (b) Inflation Adjustment to Per Student Asset Threshold.--Section 
4968(b) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Inflation adjustment.--In the case of any taxable 
        year beginning after 2022, the dollar amount in paragraph 
        (1)(D) shall be increased by an amount equal to--
                    ``(A) such dollar amount, multiplied by
                    ``(B) the cost-of-living adjustment determined 
                under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year in which 
                the taxable year begins, determined by substituting 
                `calendar year 2021' for `calendar year 2016' in 
                subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.
        If any increase determined under this paragraph is not a 
        multiple of $1,000, such increase shall be rounded to the 
        nearest multiple of $1,000.''.
    (c) Clarification of 500 Student Threshold.--Section 4968(b)(1)(A) 
is amended by inserting ``below the graduate level'' after ``500 
tuition-paying students''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 137703. TREATMENT OF FEDERAL PELL GRANTS FOR INCOME TAX PURPOSES.

    (a) Exclusion From Gross Income.--Section 117(b)(1) is amended by 
striking ``received by an individual'' and all that follows and 
inserting ``received by an individual--
                    ``(A) as a scholarship or fellowship grant to the 
                extent the individual establishes that, in accordance 
                with the conditions of the grant, such amount was used 
                for qualified tuition and related expenses, or
                    ``(B) as a Federal Pell Grant under section 401 of 
                the Higher Education Act of 1965.''.
    (b) Treatment for Purposes of American Opportunity Tax Credit and 
Lifetime Learning Credit.--Section 25A(g)(2) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``described in 
        section 117(b)(1)(A)'' after ``a qualified scholarship'', and
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``or Federal Pell 
        Grant under section 401 of the Higher Education Act of 1965'' 
        after ``within the meaning of section 102(a)''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 137704. REPEAL OF DENIAL OF AMERICAN OPPORTUNITY TAX CREDIT ON 
              BASIS OF FELONY DRUG CONVICTION.

    (a) In General.--Section 25A(b)(2) is amended by striking 
subparagraph (D).
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.
