---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Part 1 - Child Tax Credit

## SEC. 137101. MODIFICATIONS APPLICABLE BEGINNING IN 2021.

    (a) Safe Harbor Exception for Fraud and Intentional Disregard of 
Rules and Regulations.--Section 24(j)(2)(B) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``qualified'' each place it appears in 
        clause (iv)(II) and inserting ``qualifying'', and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(v) Exception for fraud and intentional 
                        disregard of rules and regulations.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--For purposes of 
                                determining the safe harbor amount 
                                under clause (iv) with respect to any 
                                taxpayer, an individual shall not be 
                                treated as taken into account in 
                                determining the annual advance amount 
                                of such taxpayer if the Secretary 
                                determines that such individual was so 
                                taken into account due to fraud by the 
                                taxpayer or intentional disregard of 
                                rules and regulations by the taxpayer.
                                    ``(II) Arrangements to take 
                                individual into account more than 
                                once.--For purposes of subclause (I), a 
                                taxpayer shall not fail to be treated 
                                as intentionally disregarding rules and 
                                regulations with respect to any 
                                individual taken into account in 
                                determining the annual advance amount 
                                of such taxpayer if such taxpayer 
                                entered into a plan or other 
                                arrangement with, or expected, another 
                                taxpayer to take such individual into 
                                account in determining the credit 
                                allowed under this section for the 
                                taxable year.''.
    (b) Treatment of Joint Returns.--Section 24(j) is amended by adding 
at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Joint returns.--Except as otherwise provided by the 
        Secretary, in the case of an advance payment made under section 
        7527A with respect to a joint return, half of such payment 
        shall be treated as having been made to each individual filing 
        such return.''.
    (c) Annual Advance Amount.--Section 7527A(b) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``or based on 
                any other information known to the Secretary'' after 
                ``reference taxable year'',
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``unless 
                determined by the Secretary based on any information 
                known to the Secretary,'' before ``the only children'', 
                and
                    (C) in subparagraph (D), by inserting ``unless 
                determined by the Secretary based on any information 
                known to the Secretary,'' before ``the ages of'', and
            (2) in paragraph (3)(A)(ii), by striking `` provided by the 
        taxpayer'' and inserting ``provided, or known,''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning, and payments made, after December 31, 
2020.

SEC. 137102. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF CHILD TAX CREDIT AND ADVANCE 
              PAYMENT FOR 2022.

    (a) Extensions.--
            (1) Extension of child tax credit.--Section 24(i) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``January 1, 2022'' in the matter 
                preceding paragraph (1) and inserting ``January 1, 
                2023'', and
                    (B) by inserting ``and 2022'' after ``2021'' in the 
                heading thereof.
            (2) Extension of provisions related to possessions of the 
        united states.--
                    (A) Section 24(k)(2)(B) is amended--
                            (i) by striking ``December 31, 2021'' in 
                        the matter preceding clause (i) and inserting 
                        ``December 31, 2022'', and
                            (ii) by striking ``After 2021'' in the 
                        heading thereof and inserting ``After 2022''.
                    (B) Section 24(k)(3)(C)(ii) is amended--
                            (i) in subclause (I), by inserting ``or 
                        2022'' after ``2021'', and
                            (ii) in subclause (II), by striking 
                        ``December 31, 2021'' and inserting ``December 
                        31, 2022''.
                    (C) The heading of section 24(k)(2)(A) is amended 
                by inserting ``and 2022'' after ``2021''.
            (3) Extension of advance payment.--Section 7527A is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``50 percent 
                of'',
                    (B) in clauses (i) and (ii) of subsection 
                (e)(4)(C), by inserting ``or 2022'' after ``in 2021'', 
                and
                    (C) in subsection (f), by striking ``December 31, 
                2021'' and inserting ``December 31, 2022''.
    (b) Repeal of Social Security Number Requirement.--Section 24(h) is 
amended by striking paragraph (7).
    (c) Application of Income Phaseout on Basis of Income for Preceding 
Taxable Year.--Section 24(i) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Application of income phaseout on basis of income for 
        prior taxable year.--If the taxpayer's modified adjusted gross 
        income (as defined in subsection (b)) for the taxable year for 
        which the credit allowed under this section is determined is 
        greater than such taxpayer's modified adjusted gross income (as 
        so defined) for the preceding taxable year, paragraph (4) and 
        subsection (b)(1) shall both be applied with respect to such 
        taxpayer's modified adjusted gross income (as so defined) for 
        the preceding taxable year.''.
    (d) Inflation Adjustment.--Section 24(i), as amended by subsection 
(c), is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) Inflation adjustments.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of any taxable year 
                beginning after December 31, 2021, the $500 amount in 
                subsection (h)(4)(A), the $3,000 and $3,600 amounts in 
                paragraph (3) and subsection (j)(2)(B)(iv), and the 
                dollar amounts in paragraph (4)(B), shall each be 
                increased by an amount equal to--
                            ``(i) such dollar amount, multiplied by
                            ``(ii) the percentage (if any) by which--
                                    ``(I) the CPI (as defined in 
                                section 1(f)(4)) for the calendar year 
                                preceding the calendar year in which 
                                such taxable year begins, exceeds
                                    ``(II) the CPI (as so defined) for 
                                calendar year 2020.
                    ``(B) Rounding.--
                            ``(i) $500 amount.--In the case of the $500 
                        amount in subsection (h)(4)(A), any increase 
                        under subparagraph (A) which is not a multiple 
                        of $10 shall be rounded to the nearest multiple 
                        of $10.
                            ``(ii) $3,000 and $3,600 amounts.--In the 
                        case of the $3,000 and $3,600 amounts in 
                        paragraph (3) and subsection (j)(2)(B)(iv), any 
                        increase under subparagraph (A) which is not a 
                        multiple of $100 shall be rounded to the 
                        nearest multiple of $100.
                            ``(iii) Applicable threshold amounts.--In 
                        the case of the dollar amounts in paragraph 
                        (4)(B), any increase under subparagraph (A) 
                        which is not a multiple of $5,000 shall be 
                        rounded to the nearest multiple of $5,000.''.
    (e) Modification of Recapture Safe Harbor for 2022.--Section 
24(j)(2)(B)(iv), as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is 
amended to read as follows:
                            ``(iv) Safe harbor amount.--For purposes of 
                        this subparagraph, the term `safe harbor 
                        amount' means, with respect to any taxpayer for 
                        any taxable year, the aggregate of $3,000 
                        ($3,600 in the case of a qualifying child who 
                        has not attained age 6 as of the close of the 
                        calendar year in which the taxable year of the 
                        taxpayer begins) with respect to each 
                        qualifying child who is--
                                    ``(I) taken into account in 
                                determining the annual advance amount 
                                with respect to such taxpayer under 
                                section 7527A with respect to months 
                                beginning in such taxable year, and
                                    ``(II) not taken into account in 
                                determining the credit allowed to such 
                                taxpayer under this section for such 
                                taxable year.''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning, and payments made, after December 31, 
2021.

SEC. 137103. ESTABLISHMENT OF MONTHLY CHILD TAX CREDIT WITH ADVANCE 
              PAYMENT THROUGH 2025.

    (a) In General.--Subpart A of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 
is amended by inserting after section 24 the following new sections:

``SEC. 24A. MONTHLY CHILD TAX CREDIT.

    ``(a) Allowance of Credit.--There shall be allowed as a credit 
against the tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable year the sum of 
the monthly specified child allowances determined with respect to the 
taxpayer under subsection (b) for each calendar month during such 
taxable year.
    ``(b) Monthly Specified Child Allowance.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of this section, the term 
        `monthly specified child allowance' means, with respect to any 
        taxpayer for any calendar month, the sum of--
                    ``(A) $300 with respect to each specified child of 
                such taxpayer who will not, as of the close of the 
                taxable year which includes such month, have attained 
                age 6, plus
                    ``(B) $250 with respect to each specified child of 
                such taxpayer who will, as of the close of the taxable 
                year which includes such month, have attained age 6.
            ``(2) Limitations based on modified adjusted gross 
        income.--
                    ``(A) Initial reduction.--The monthly specified 
                child allowance otherwise determined under paragraph 
                (1) with respect to any taxpayer for any calendar month 
                shall be reduced (but not below zero) by \1/12\ of 5 
                percent of the excess (if any) of the taxpayer's 
                modified adjusted gross income for the applicable 
                taxable year over the initial threshold amount in 
                effect for such applicable taxable year.
                    ``(B) Limitation on initial reduction.--The amount 
                of the reduction under subparagraph (A) shall not 
                exceed the lesser of--
                            ``(i) the excess (if any) of--
                                    ``(I) the monthly specified child 
                                allowance with respect to the taxpayer 
                                for the calendar month (determined 
                                without regard to this paragraph), over
                                    ``(II) the amount which would be 
                                determined under subclause (I) if the 
                                dollar amounts in effect under 
                                subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph 
                                (1) were each equal to $166.67, or
                            ``(ii) \1/12\ of 5 percent of the excess of 
                        the secondary threshold amount over the initial 
                        threshold amount.
                    ``(C) Secondary reduction.--The monthly specified 
                child allowance otherwise determined under paragraph 
                (1) with respect to any taxpayer for any calendar month 
                (determined after the application of subparagraphs (A) 
                and (B)) shall be reduced (but not below zero) by \1/
                12\ of 5 percent of the excess (if any) of the 
                taxpayer's modified adjusted gross income for the 
                applicable taxable year over the secondary threshold 
                amount.
                    ``(D) Definitions related to limitations based on 
                modified adjusted gross income.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph--
                            ``(i) Initial threshold amount.--The term 
                        `initial threshold amount' means--
                                    ``(I) $150,000, in the case of a 
                                joint return or surviving spouse (as 
                                defined in section 2(a)),
                                    ``(II) \1/2\ the dollar amount in 
                                effect under subclause (I), in the case 
                                of a married individual filing a 
                                separate return, and
                                    ``(III) $112,500, in any other 
                                case.
                            ``(iii) Secondary threshold amount.--The 
                        term `secondary threshold amount' means--
                                    ``(I) $400,000, in the case of a 
                                joint return or surviving spouse (as 
                                defined in section 2(a)),
                                    ``(II) $300,000, in the case of a 
                                head of household (as defined in 
                                section 2(b)), and
                                    ``(III) $200,000, in any other 
                                case.
                            ``(iv) Applicable taxable year.--The term 
                        `applicable taxable year' means, with respect 
                        to any taxpayer, the relevant taxable year with 
                        respect to which the taxpayer has the lowest 
                        modified adjusted gross income. For purposes of 
                        the preceding sentence, the term `relevant 
                        taxable year' means the taxable year for which 
                        the credit allowed under this section is 
                        determined and each of the 2 immediately 
                        preceding taxable years.
                            ``(v) Modified adjusted gross income.--The 
                        term `modified adjusted gross income' means 
                        adjusted gross income increased by any amount 
                        excluded from gross income under section 911, 
                        931, or 933.
    ``(c) Specified Child.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `specified child' means, with 
        respect to any taxpayer for any calendar month, an individual--
                    ``(A) who has the same principal place of abode as 
                the taxpayer for more than one-half of such month,
                    ``(B) who is younger than the taxpayer and will 
                not, as of the close of the calendar year which 
                includes such month, have attained age 18,
                    ``(C) who receives care from the taxpayer during 
                such month that is not compensated,
                    ``(D) who is not the spouse of the taxpayer at any 
                time during such month,
                    ``(E) who is not a taxpayer with respect to whom 
                any individual is a specified child for such month, and
                    ``(F) who either--
                            ``(i) is a citizen, national, or resident 
                        of the United States, or
                            ``(ii) if the taxpayer is a citizen or 
                        national of the United States, such individual 
                        is described in section 152(f)(1)(B) with 
                        respect to such taxpayer.
            ``(2) Care from the taxpayer.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as otherwise provided by 
                the Secretary, whether any individual receives care 
                from the taxpayer (within the meaning of paragraph 
                (1)(C)) shall be determined on the basis of facts and 
                circumstances with respect to the following factors:
                            ``(i) The supervision provided by the 
                        taxpayer regarding the daily activities and 
                        needs of the individual.
                            ``(ii) The maintenance by the taxpayer of a 
                        secure environment at which the individual 
                        resides.
                            ``(iii) The provision or arrangement by the 
                        taxpayer of, and transportation by the taxpayer 
                        to, medical care at regular intervals and as 
                        required for the individual.
                            ``(iv) The involvement by the taxpayer in, 
                        and financial and other support by the taxpayer 
                        for, educational or similar activities of the 
                        individual.
                            ``(v) Any other factor that the Secretary 
                        determines to be appropriate to determine 
                        whether the individual receives care from the 
                        taxpayer.
                    ``(B) Determination of whether care is 
                compensated.--For purposes of determining if care is 
                compensated within the meaning of paragraph (1)(C), 
                compensation from the Federal Government, a State or 
                local government, a Tribal government, or any 
                possession of the United States shall not be taken into 
                account.
            ``(3) Application of tie-breaker rules.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (D), if any individual would (but for this 
                paragraph) be a specified child of 2 or more taxpayers 
                for any month, such individual shall be treated as the 
                specified child only of the taxpayer who is--
                            ``(i) the parent of the individual (or, if 
                        such individual would (but for this paragraph) 
                        be a specified child of 2 or more parents of 
                        the individual for such month, the parent of 
                        the individual determined under subparagraph 
                        (B)),
                            ``(ii) if the individual is not a specified 
                        child of any parent of the individual 
                        (determined without regard to this paragraph), 
                        the specified relative of the individual with 
                        the highest adjusted gross income for the 
                        taxable year which includes such month, or
                            ``(iii) if the individual is neither a 
                        specified child of any parent of the individual 
                        nor a specified child of any specified relative 
                        of the individual (in both cases determined 
                        without regard to this paragraph), the taxpayer 
                        with the highest adjusted gross income for the 
                        taxable year which includes such month.
                    ``(B) Tie-breaker among parents.--If any individual 
                would (but for this paragraph) be the specified child 
                of 2 or more parents of the individual for any month, 
                such child shall be treated only as the specified child 
                of--
                            ``(i) the parent with whom the child 
                        resided for the longest period of time during 
                        such month, or
                            ``(ii) if the child resides with both 
                        parents for the same amount of time during such 
                        month, the parent with the highest adjusted 
                        gross income for the taxable year which 
                        includes such month.
                    ``(C) Specified relative.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, the term `specified relative' means an 
                individual who is--
                            ``(i) an ancestor of a parent of the 
                        specified child,
                            ``(ii) a brother or sister of a parent of 
                        the specified child, or
                            ``(iii) a brother, sister, stepbrother, or 
                        stepsister of the specified child.
                    ``(D) Certain parents or specified relatives not 
                taken into account.--This paragraph shall be applied 
                without regard to any parent or specified relative of 
                an individual for any month if--
                            ``(i) such parent or specified relative 
                        elects to have such individual not be treated 
                        as a specified child of such parent or 
                        specified relative for such month,
                            ``(ii) in the case of a parent of such 
                        individual, the adjusted gross income of the 
                        taxpayer (with respect to whom such individual 
                        would be treated as a specified child after 
                        application of this subparagraph) for the 
                        taxable year which includes such month is 
                        higher than the highest adjusted gross income 
                        of any parent of the individual for any taxable 
                        year which includes such month (determined 
                        without regard to any parent with respect to 
                        whom such individual is not a specified child, 
                        determined without regard to subparagraphs (A) 
                        and (B) and after application of this 
                        subparagraph), and
                            ``(iii) in the case of a specified relative 
                        of such individual, the adjusted gross income 
                        of the taxpayer (with respect to whom such 
                        individual would be treated as a specified 
                        child after application of this subparagraph) 
                        for the taxable year which includes such month 
                        is higher than the highest adjusted gross 
                        income of any parent and any specified relative 
                        of the individual for any taxable year which 
                        includes such month (determined without regard 
                        to any parent and any specified relative with 
                        respect to whom such individual is not a 
                        specified child, determined without regard to 
                        subparagraphs (A) and (B) and after application 
                        of this subparagraph).
                    ``(E) Treatment of joint returns.--For purposes of 
                this paragraph, with respect to any month, 2 
                individuals filing a joint return for the taxable year 
                which includes such month shall be treated as 1 
                individual.
                    ``(F) Parent.--Except as otherwise provided by the 
                Secretary, the term `parent' shall have the same 
                meaning as when used in section 152(c)(4).
            ``(4) Special rules with respect to birth and death.--
                    ``(A) Birth.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In the case of the birth 
                        of an individual during any calendar year, such 
                        individual shall be treated as a specified 
                        child of the relevant taxpayer for each 
                        calendar month in such calendar year which 
                        precedes the calendar month referred to in 
                        clause (ii).
                            ``(ii) Relevant taxpayer.--For purposes of 
                        clause (i), the term `relevant taxpayer' means 
                        the taxpayer with respect to whom the 
                        individual referred to in clause (i) is a 
                        specified child for the first month for which 
                        such individual is a specified child with 
                        respect to any taxpayer (determined without 
                        regard to this subparagraph).
                    ``(B) Death.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In the case of the death 
                        of an individual during any calendar year, such 
                        individual shall be treated as a specified 
                        child of the relevant taxpayer for each 
                        calendar month in such calendar year which 
                        follows the calendar month referred to in 
                        clause (ii).
                            ``(ii) Relevant taxpayer.--For purposes of 
                        clause (i), the term `relevant taxpayer' means 
                        the taxpayer with respect to whom the 
                        individual referred to in clause (i) is a 
                        specified child for the last month for which 
                        such individual is alive.
            ``(5) Treatment of temporary absences.--For purposes of 
        this subsection--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of any individual's 
                temporary absence from such individual's principal 
                place of abode, each day composing the temporary 
                absence shall--
                            ``(i) be treated as a day at such 
                        individual's principal place of abode, and
                            ``(ii) not be treated as a day at any other 
                        location.
                    ``(B) Temporary absence.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A), an absence shall be treated as 
                temporary if--
                            ``(i) the individual would have resided at 
                        the place of abode but for the absence, and
                            ``(ii) under the facts and circumstances, 
                        it is reasonable to assume that the individual 
                        will return to reside at the place of abode.
            ``(6) Special rule for divorced parents, etc.--Rules 
        similar to the rules section 152(e) shall apply for purposes of 
        this subsection.
            ``(7) Eligibilty determined on basis of presumptive 
        eligibility.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If a period of presumptive 
                eligibility is established under section 7527B(c) for 
                any individual with respect to any taxpayer--
                            ``(i) such individual shall be treated as 
                        the specified child of such taxpayer for any 
                        month in such period of presumptive 
                        eligibility, and
                            ``(ii) such individual shall not be treated 
                        as the specified child of any other taxpayer 
                        with respect to whom a period of presumptive 
                        eligibility has not been established for any 
                        such month.
                    ``(B) Ability of credit claimants to establish 
                presumptive eligibility.--Nothing in section 7527B(c) 
                shall be interpreted to preclude a taxpayer who elects 
                not to receive monthly advance child payments under 
                section 7527B from establishing a period of presumptive 
                eligibility (including any such period described in 
                section 7527B(c)(2)(D)) with respect to any specified 
                child for purposes of this section.
    ``(d) Portion of Credit Refundable.--If the taxpayer (in the case 
of a joint return, either spouse) has a principal place of abode 
(determined as provided in section 32) in the United States or Puerto 
Rico for more than one-half of any calendar month during the taxable 
year, so much of the credit otherwise allowed under subsection (a) as 
is attributable to monthly specified child allowances with respect to 
any such calendar month shall be allowed under subpart C (and not 
allowed under this subpart).
    ``(e) Identification Requirements.--Rules similar to the rules of 
section 24(e) shall apply for purposes of this section.
    ``(f) Restrictions on Taxpayers Who Improperly Claimed Credit or 
Improperly Received Monthly Advance Child Payment.--
            ``(1) Taxpayers making prior fraudulent or reckless 
        claims.--
                    ``(A) In general.--No credit shall be allowed under 
                this section for any taxable year (and no payment shall 
                be made under section 7527B for any month) in the 
                disallowance period.
                    ``(B) Disallowance period.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A), the disallowance period is--
                            ``(i) the period of 10 taxable years after 
                        the most recent taxable year for which there 
                        was a final determination that the taxpayer's 
                        claim of credit under this section or section 
                        24 (or payment under section 7527A or 7527B) 
                        was due to fraud,
                            ``(ii) the period of 2 taxable years after 
                        the most recent taxable year for which there 
                        was a final determination that the taxpayer's 
                        claim of credit under this section or section 
                        24 (or payment under section 7527A or 7527B) 
                        was due to reckless or intentional disregard of 
                        rules and regulations (but not due to fraud), 
                        and
                            ``(iii) in addition to any period 
                        determined under clause (i) or (ii) (as the 
                        case may be), the period beginning on the date 
                        of the final determination described in such 
                        clause and ending with the beginning of the 
                        period described in such clause.
            ``(2) Taxpayers making improper prior claims.--In the case 
        of a taxpayer who is denied credit under this section or 
        section 24 for any taxable year as a result of the deficiency 
        procedures under subchapter B of chapter 63, no credit shall be 
        allowed under this section for any subsequent taxable year (and 
        no payment shall be made under section 7527B for any subsequent 
        month) unless the taxpayer provides such information as the 
        Secretary may require to demonstrate eligibility for such 
        credit.
            ``(3) Coordination with possessions of the united states.--
        In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall coordinate 
        with each possession of the United States to prevent the 
        avoidance of the application of this subsection.
    ``(g) Reconciliation of Credit and Monthly Advance Child 
Payments.--
            ``(1) In general.--The amount otherwise determined under 
        subsection (a) with respect to any taxpayer for any taxable 
        year shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the aggregate 
        amount of payments made under section 7527B to such taxpayer 
        for one or more calendar months in such taxable year. Any 
        failure to so reduce the credit shall be treated as arising out 
        of a mathematical or clerical error and assessed according to 
        section 6213(b)(1).
            ``(2) Recapture of excess advance payments in certain 
        circumstances.--In the case of a taxpayer described in 
        paragraph (3) for any taxable year, the tax imposed by this 
        chapter for such taxable year shall be increased by the excess 
        (if any) of--
                    ``(A) the aggregate amount of payments made to the 
                taxpayer under section 7527B for one or more calendar 
                months in such taxable year, over
                    ``(B) the amount determined under subsection (a) 
                with respect to the taxpayer for such taxable year 
                (without regard to paragraph (1) of this subsection).
            ``(3) Taxpayers subject to recapture.--
                    ``(A) Fraud or reckless or intentional disregard of 
                rules and regulations.--A taxpayer is described in this 
                paragraph with respect to any taxable year if the 
                Secretary determines that the amount described in 
                paragraph (2)(A) with respect to the taxpayer for such 
                taxable year was determined on the basis of fraud or a 
                reckless or intentional disregard of rules and 
                regulations.
                    ``(B) Understatement of income; changes in filing 
                status.--If the amount described in paragraph (2)(A) 
                with respect to the taxpayer for the taxable year was 
                determined on the basis of an amount of the taxpayer's 
                modified adjusted gross income which was less than the 
                taxpayer's modified adjusted gross income for the 
                applicable taxable year (as defined in subsection 
                (b))--
                            ``(i) such taxpayer shall be treated as 
                        described in this paragraph, and
                            ``(ii) the increase determined under 
                        paragraph (2) by reason of this subparagraph 
                        shall not exceed the excess of--
                                    ``(I) the amount described in 
                                paragraph (2)(A), over
                                    ``(II) the amount which would be so 
                                described if the payments described 
                                therein had been determined on the 
                                basis of the taxpayer's modified 
                                adjusted gross income for the 
                                applicable taxable year (as defined in 
                                subsection (b)).
                        A rule similar to the rule of the preceding 
                        sentence shall apply if the amount described in 
                        paragraph (2)(A) with respect to the taxpayer 
                        for the taxable year was determined on the 
                        basis of a filing status of the taxpayer which 
                        differs from the taxpayer's filing status for 
                        the applicable taxable year (as so defined).
                    ``(C) Payments made outside of period of 
                presumptive eligibility.--If any payment described in 
                paragraph (2)(A) with respect to the taxpayer for the 
                taxable year was made with respect to a child for a 
                month which was not part of a period of presumptive 
                eligibility established under section 7527B(c) for such 
                child with respect to such taxpayer--
                            ``(i) such taxpayer shall be treated as 
                        described in this paragraph, and
                            ``(ii) the increase determined under 
                        paragraph (2) by reason of this subparagraph 
                        shall not exceed the portion of such payment so 
                        made.
                    ``(D) Certain payments made after notice from 
                secretary.--If the Secretary notifies a taxpayer under 
                section 7527B(j)(2) that such taxpayer is subject to 
                recapture with respect to any payments--
                            ``(i) such taxpayer shall be treated as 
                        described in this paragraph, and
                            ``(ii) the increase determined under 
                        paragraph (2) by reason of this subparagraph 
                        shall not exceed the aggregate amount of such 
                        payments.
                    ``(E) Taxpayers moving to another jurisdiction.--To 
                minimize the amount of advance payments made under 
                section 7527B to ineligible individuals, the Secretary 
                shall issue regulations or other guidance for purposes 
                of this paragraph which apply with respect to taxpayers 
                who are described in section 7527B(b)(4) with respect 
                to the reference month but are not so described with 
                respect to one or more months during the taxable year 
                for which advance payments under section 7527B are 
                made.
                    ``(F) Other circumstances to prevent abuse.--A 
                taxpayer is described in this paragraph with respect to 
                any taxable year pursuant to regulations or other 
                guidance of the Secretary describing other recapture 
                circumstances to facilitate the administration and 
                enforcement by the Secretary of section 7527B to 
                minimize the amount of advance payments made under 
                section 7527B to ineligible individuals and to prevent 
                abuse.
            ``(4) Joint returns.--Except as otherwise provided by the 
        Secretary, in the case of an advance payment made under section 
        7527B with respect to a joint return, half of such payment 
        shall be treated as having been made to each individual filing 
        such return.
    ``(h) Inflation Adjustments.--
            ``(1) Monthly specified child allowance.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of any month 
                beginning after December 31, 2022, each of the dollar 
                amounts in subsection (b)(1) shall be increased by an 
                amount equal to--
                            ``(i) such dollar amount, multiplied by
                            ``(ii) the percentage (if any) by which--
                                    ``(I) the CPI (as defined in 
                                section 1(f)(4)) for the calendar year 
                                preceding the calendar year in which 
                                such month begins, exceeds
                                    ``(II) the CPI (as so defined) for 
                                calendar year 2020.
                    ``(B) Rounding.--Any increase under subparagraph 
                (A) which is not a multiple of $10 shall be rounded to 
                the nearest multiple of $10.
            ``(2) Initial threshold amount.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of any taxable year 
                beginning after December 31, 2022, the dollar amounts 
                in subclauses (I) and (III) of subsection (b)(2)(D)(i) 
                shall each be increased by an amount equal to--
                            ``(i) such dollar amount, multiplied by
                            ``(ii) the percentage (if any) by which--
                                    ``(I) the CPI (as defined in 
                                section 1(f)(4)) for the calendar year 
                                preceding the calendar year in which 
                                such taxable year begins, exceeds
                                    ``(II) the CPI (as so defined) for 
                                calendar year 2020.
                    ``(B) Rounding.--Any increase under subparagraph 
                (A) which is not a multiple of $5,000 shall be rounded 
                to the nearest multiple of $5,000.
    ``(i) Application of Credit in Possessions.--
            ``(1) Mirror code possessions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall pay to each 
                possession of the United States with a mirror code tax 
                system amounts equal to the loss (if any) to that 
                possession by reason of the application of this section 
                (determined without regard to this subsection) with 
                respect to taxable years beginning after 2022 and 
                before 2026. Such amounts shall be determined by the 
                Secretary based on information provided by the 
                government of the respective possession.
                    ``(B) Coordination with credit allowed against 
                united states income taxes.--No credit shall be allowed 
                under this section for any taxable year to any 
                individual to whom a credit is allowable against taxes 
                imposed by a possession of the United States with a 
                mirror code tax system by reason of the application of 
                this section in such possession for such taxable year.
                    ``(C) Mirror code tax system.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, the term `mirror code tax system' means, 
                with respect to any possession of the United States, 
                the income tax system of such possession if the income 
                tax liability of the residents of such possession under 
                such system is determined by reference to the income 
                tax laws of the United States as if such possession 
                were the United States.
            ``(2) Cross references related to application of credit to 
        residents of puerto rico.--
                    ``(A) For application of refundable credit to 
                residents of Puerto Rico, see subsection (d).
                    ``(B) For application of advance payment to 
                residents of Puerto Rico, see section 7527B(b)(4).
            ``(3) American samoa.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall pay to 
                American Samoa amounts estimated by the Secretary as 
                being equal to the aggregate benefits that would have 
                been provided to residents of American Samoa by reason 
                of the application of this section for taxable years 
                beginning after 2022 and before 2026 if the provisions 
                of this section had been in effect in American Samoa 
                (applied as if American Samoa were the United States 
                and without regard to the application of this section 
                to residents of Puerto Rico under subsection (d)).
                    ``(B) Distribution requirement.--Subparagraph (A) 
                shall not apply unless American Samoa has a plan, which 
                has been approved by the Secretary, under which 
                American Samoa will promptly distribute such payments 
                to its residents.
                    ``(C) Coordination with credit allowed against 
                united states income taxes.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In the case of a taxable 
                        year with respect to which a plan is approved 
                        under subparagraph (B), this section (other 
                        than this subsection) shall not apply to any 
                        individual eligible for a distribution under 
                        such plan.
                            ``(ii) Application of section in event of 
                        absence of approved plan.--In the case of a 
                        taxable year with respect to which a plan is 
                        not approved under subparagraph (B), subsection 
                        (d) shall be applied by substituting `, Puerto 
                        Rico, or American Samoa' for `or Puerto Rico'.
            ``(4) Treatment of payments.--For purposes of section 1324 
        of title 31, United States Code, the payments under this 
        subsection shall be treated in the same manner as a refund due 
        from a credit provision referred to in subsection (b)(2) of 
        such section.
    ``(j) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such regulations or 
other guidance as the Secretary determines necessary or appropriate to 
carry out the purposes of this section, including regulations or other 
guidance--
            ``(1) for determining whether an individual receives care 
        from a taxpayer for purposes of subsection (c)(1), and
            ``(2) to coordinate or modify the application of this 
        section and section 24, 7527A, and 7527B in the case of any 
        taxpayer--
                    ``(A) whose taxable year is other than a calendar 
                year,
                    ``(B) whose filing status for a taxable year is 
                different from the status used for determining one or 
                more monthly payments under section 7527B during such 
                taxable year, or
                    ``(C) whose principal place of abode for any month 
                is different from the principal place of abode used for 
                determining the monthly payment under section 7527B for 
                such month.
    ``(k) Termination.--This section shall not apply to taxable years 
beginning after December 31, 2025.

``SEC. 24B. CREDIT FOR CERTAIN OTHER DEPENDENTS.

    ``(a) In General.--There shall be allowed as a credit against the 
tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable year an amount equal to 
$500 with respect to each specified dependent of such taxpayer for such 
taxable year.
    ``(b) Limitation Based on Modified Adjusted Gross Income.--
            ``(1) In general.--The amount of the credit allowable under 
        subsection (a) shall be reduced (but not below zero) by $50 for 
        each $1,000 (or fraction thereof) by which the taxpayer's 
        modified adjusted gross income exceeds the threshold amount.
            ``(2) Threshold amount.--For purposes of this subsection, 
        the term `threshold amount' means--
                    ``(A) $400,000, in the case of a joint return or 
                surviving spouse (as defined in section 2(a)),
                    ``(B) $300,000, in the case of a head of household 
                (as defined in section 2(b)), and
                    ``(C) $200,000, in any other case.
            ``(3) Modified adjusted gross income.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `modified adjusted gross income' means 
        adjusted gross income increased by any amount excluded from 
        gross income under section 911, 931, or 933.
    ``(c) Specified Dependent.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`specified dependent' means, with respect to any taxpayer for any 
taxable year, any dependent of such taxpayer for such taxable year 
unless such dependent--
            ``(1) is a specified child of the taxpayer, or any other 
        taxpayer, for any month during such taxable year, or
            ``(2) would not be a dependent if subparagraph (A) of 
        section 152(b)(3) were applied without regard to all that 
        follows `resident of the United States'.
    ``(d) Identification Requirements.--Rules similar to the rules of 
section 24(e) shall apply for purposes of this section.
    ``(e) Taxable Year Must Be Full Taxable Year.--Except in the case 
of a taxable year closed by reason of the death of the taxpayer, no 
credit shall be allowable under this section in the case of a taxable 
year covering a period of less than 12 months.
    ``(f) Inflation Adjustment.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of any taxable year 
        beginning after December 31, 2022, the $500 amount in 
        subsection (a) shall be increased by an amount equal to--
                    ``(A) such dollar amount, multiplied by
                    ``(B) the percentage (if any) by which--
                            ``(i) the CPI (as defined in section 
                        1(f)(4)) for the calendar year preceding the 
                        calendar year in which such taxable year 
                        begins, exceeds
                            ``(ii) the CPI (as so defined) for calendar 
                        year 2020.
            ``(2) Rounding.--If the increase determined under paragraph 
        (1) is not a multiple of $10, such increase shall be rounded to 
        the nearest multiple of $10.
    ``(g) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such regulations or 
other guidance as the Secretary determines necessary or appropriate to 
carry out the purposes of this section.
    ``(h) Termination.--This section shall not apply to taxable years 
beginning after December 31, 2025.''.
    (b) Monthly Payment of Child Tax Credit.--Chapter 77 is amended by 
inserting after section 7527A the following new section:

``SEC. 7527B. MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF CHILD TAX CREDIT.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish a program for 
making payments to taxpayers with respect to each calendar month equal 
to the monthly advance child payment determined with respect to such 
taxpayer for such month.
    ``(b) Monthly Advance Child Payment.--For purposes of this section 
and except as otherwise provided in this section, the term `monthly 
advance child payment' means, with respect to any taxpayer for any 
calendar month, the amount (if any) which is estimated by the Secretary 
as being equal to the monthly specified child allowance which would be 
determined under section 24A(b) with respect to such taxpayer for such 
calendar month if--
            ``(1) unless determined by the Secretary based on any 
        information known to the Secretary, the only specified children 
        of such taxpayer for such calendar month are the specified 
        children of such taxpayer for the reference month,
            ``(2) unless determined by the Secretary based on any 
        information known to the Secretary, the ages of such children 
        (and the status of such children as specified children) are 
        determined for such calendar month by taking into account the 
        passage of time since such reference month,
            ``(3) the limitations of section 24A(b)(2) were applied 
        with respect to the reference taxable year rather than with 
        respect to the applicable taxable year, and
            ``(4) unless determined by the Secretary based on any 
        information known to the Secretary, no monthly specified child 
        allowance were determined with respect to such taxpayer for 
        such calendar month unless the taxpayer (in the case of a joint 
        return, either spouse) has a principal place of abode 
        (determined as provided in section 32) in the United States or 
        Puerto Rico for more than one-half of the reference month.
    ``(c) Presumptive Eligibility.--
            ``(1) In general.--An individual shall be treated as a 
        specified child of a taxpayer for purposes of determining any 
        monthly advance child payment under this section only if such 
        month is part of the period of presumptive eligibility 
        determined by the Secretary under this subsection with respect 
        to such specified child and such taxpayer (determined by 
        treating the month described in subclause (I) of paragraph 
        (2)(A)(ii) as being the first month beginning after the 
        determination described in such subclause).
            ``(2) Period of presumptive eligibility.--For purposes of 
        this section--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as otherwise provided by 
                the Secretary, the term `period of presumptive 
                eligibility' means the period--
                            ``(i) beginning with the month for which 
                        presumptive eligibility is established, and
                            ``(ii) ending with the earliest of--
                                    ``(I) the beginning of the month 
                                described in clause (i) if the 
                                Secretary determines that the taxpayer 
                                committed fraud or intentionally 
                                disregarded rules or regulations in 
                                establishing or maintaining presumptive 
                                eligibility,
                                    ``(II) in the case of any 
                                notification from the Secretary that 
                                the period of presumptive eligibility 
                                has been terminated or suspended by 
                                reason of any question regarding 
                                eligibility of the taxpayer for monthly 
                                advance child payments with respect to 
                                such child, the month specified in such 
                                notice as the month on which such 
                                termination or suspension begins, and
                                    ``(III) the month following any 
                                failure of the taxpayer to make the 
                                required annual renewal of presumptive 
                                eligibility by such date as the 
                                Secretary may provide.
                    ``(B) Establishing presumptive eligibility.--A 
                taxpayer shall establish presumptive eligibility with 
                respect to any specified child for any month at such 
                time and in such manner as the Secretary may provide. 
                Except as otherwise provided by the Secretary, in order 
                to establish a period of presumptive eligibility the 
                taxpayer must express a reasonable expectation and 
                intent that the taxpayer will continue to be eligible 
                with respect to such specified child for at least the 
                two months following the month for which presumptive 
                eligibility is to be established.
                    ``(C) Method of establishing presumptive 
                eligibility.--The Secretary shall ensure information to 
                establish presumptive eligibility under this paragraph 
                may be provided on the return of tax for the taxable 
                year ending before the calendar year which includes the 
                month for which such eligibility is to be established, 
                through the on-line portal described in subsection (c), 
                or in such other manner as the Secretary may provide.
                    ``(D) Inclusion of automatic grace periods and 
                periods of hardship.--The period of presumptive 
                eligibility shall include any period to which paragraph 
                (1) or (2) of subsection (g) applies.
                    ``(E) Automatic eligibility for birth of child.--
                The Secretary shall issue regulations or other guidance 
                to establish procedures pursuant to which, to the 
                maximum extent administratively practicable--
                            ``(i) a parent of a child born during a 
                        calendar month shall be treated as 
                        automatically establishing presumptive 
                        eligibility with respect to such child,
                            ``(ii) the period of such automatic 
                        presumptive eligibility is determined, and
                            ``(iii) the first monthly advance child 
                        payment with respect to such child is adjusted 
                        to properly take into account each month in the 
                        taxable year preceding such birth.
                    ``(F) Presumptive eligibility based on certain 
                government programs.--The Secretary shall issue 
                regulations or other guidance to establish procedures 
                under which--
                            ``(i) based on information provided to the 
                        Secretary by one or more government entities, a 
                        parent or specified relative of a child is 
                        treated as automatically establishing 
                        presumptive eligibility with respect to such 
                        child, and
                            ``(ii) the period for which such automatic 
                        presumptive eligibility is determined 
                        (including any additional circumstances under 
                        which such period will terminate).
                    ``(G) Coordination with presumption.--For purposes 
                of determining the status of any individual as a 
                specified child for purposes of determining presumptive 
                eligibility with respect to any period, section 24A(c) 
                shall be applied without regard to paragraph (7) 
                thereof.
            ``(3) Notice of termination of presumptive eligibility by 
        reason of failure to make annual renewal.--If a taxpayer's 
        period of presumptive eligibility with respect to any specified 
        child terminates by reason of paragraph (2)(A)(ii)(IV), the 
        Secretary shall provide the taxpayer a written notice of such 
        termination.
    ``(d) Determination of Reference Month and Reference Taxable 
Year.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Reference month.--The term `reference month' means, 
        with respect to any taxpayer for any calendar month, the most 
        recent of--
                    ``(A) in the case of a taxpayer who filed a return 
                of tax for the last taxable year ending before such 
                calendar month, the last month of such taxable year,
                    ``(B) in the case of a taxpayer who filed a return 
                of tax for the taxable year preceding the taxable year 
                described in subparagraph (A), the last month of such 
                preceding taxable year, and
                    ``(C) in the case of a taxpayer who provides, 
                through a specified alternative mechanism, information 
                which is sufficient to estimate the taxpayer's monthly 
                advance child payment for such month, such month.
            ``(2) Reference taxable year.--The term `reference taxable 
        year' means, with respect to any taxpayer for any calendar 
        month, the most recent of--
                    ``(A) the taxable year described in subparagraph 
                (A) or (B) of paragraph (1), or
                    ``(B) in the case of a taxpayer who provides, 
                through a specified alternative mechanism, information 
                which is sufficient to estimate the taxpayer's modified 
                adjusted gross income for the taxable year which 
                includes such month, such taxable year.
            ``(3) Availability of information.--Any month or year 
        referred to in subparagraphs (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (1) 
        or subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (2) shall not be taken 
        into account in determining the reference month or reference 
        taxable year with respect to any calendar month unless all 
        relevant information with respect to such month or year is 
        available to the Secretary and the Secretary has adequate time 
        to make estimates under this section on the basis of such 
        information before the beginning of such calendar month.
            ``(4) Treatment of insufficient information.--Except as 
        otherwise provided by the Secretary--
                    ``(A) if a taxpayer is not described in 
                subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (1) with 
                respect to any calendar month, the monthly advance 
                child payment with respect to such taxpayer for such 
                calendar month shall be treated as zero unless the 
                Secretary determines that the Secretary can make the 
                estimate described in subsection (b) on the basis of 
                information known to the Secretary which the Secretary 
                determines is reasonably reliable, and
                    ``(B) if the taxpayer is not described in paragraph 
                (1)(C) and the information on the return of tax 
                referred to in subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1) 
                does not establish the status of the taxpayer (in the 
                case of a joint return, either spouse) as having a 
                principal place of abode (determined as provided in 
                section 32) in the United States or Puerto Rico for 
                more than one-half of the reference month, the 
                Secretary shall determine such status based on 
                information known to the Secretary.
            ``(5) Transition rule.--In any case with respect to which 
        section 24A was not in effect for the taxable year described in 
        subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (1) (whichever is 
        applicable), subsection (b)(1) shall be applied by substituting 
        `the qualifying children of such taxpayer for the taxable year 
        which includes the reference month' for `the specified children 
        of such taxpayer for the reference month'.
    ``(e) On-line Information Portal; Specified Alternative 
Mechanisms.--
            ``(1) On-line information portal.--The Secretary shall 
        establish an on-line portal which allows taxpayers to--
                    ``(A) subject to such restrictions as the Secretary 
                may provide, elect to begin or cease receiving payments 
                under this section, and
                    ``(B) provide information to the Secretary which is 
                relevant in determining the monthly advance child 
                payment and the taxpayer's eligibility for such 
                payment, including information regarding--
                            ``(i) the number of the taxpayer's 
                        specified children, including by reason of the 
                        birth of a child,
                            ``(ii) the taxpayer's marital status,
                            ``(iii) the taxpayer's modified adjusted 
                        gross income,
                            ``(iv) the taxpayer's principal place of 
                        abode, and
                            ``(v) any other factor which the Secretary 
                        may provide.
            ``(2) Specified alternative mechanism.--For purposes of 
        this section, the term `specified alternative mechanism' means 
        the on-line portal established under paragraph (1), the on-line 
        portal established under section 7527A, and any other mechanism 
        or method established by the Secretary to allow taxpayer's to 
        provide the information described in paragraph (1) (including 
        in connection with the filing of any return of tax).
    ``(f) Specified Child of More Than 1 Taxpayer.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the event that (without regard to 
        this paragraph and determined without regard to any election 
        under subsection (e)(1)) any specified child would be taken 
        into account in determining the monthly advance child payment 
        of more than one taxpayer for the same calendar month--
                    ``(A) except as provided in subparagraph (B), such 
                child shall be so taken into account only with respect 
                to the taxpayer with the most recent reference month, 
                and
                    ``(B) if any such taxpayer is described in 
                subsection (d)(1)(C) (or more than 1 taxpayer is 
                described in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph), the 
                Secretary shall establish procedures under which the 
                Secretary expeditiously adjudicates the taxpayer's 
                competing claims of presumptive eligibility with 
                respect to the same child.
            ``(2) Provisions related to adjudication.--
                    ``(A) Expedited process; appeals.--The procedures 
                established under paragraph (1)(B) shall include--
                            ``(i) an expedited process for taxpayers 
                        who meet such requirements as the Secretary may 
                        establish for such expedited process, and
                            ``(ii) procedures for adjudicating an 
                        appeal of an adverse decision.
                    ``(B) Information receipt and coordination.--The 
                Secretary may enter into agreements to receive 
                information from, and otherwise coordinate with--
                            ``(i) Federal agencies (including the 
                        Social Security Administration and the 
                        Department of Agriculture),
                            ``(ii) any State, local government, Tribal 
                        government, or possession of the United States, 
                        and
                            ``(iii) any other individual or entity that 
                        the Secretary determines to be appropriate for 
                        purposes of adjudicating a competing claim 
                        described in paragraph (1).
                    ``(C) Adjudication not treated as assessment.--An 
                adjudication under the procedures established under 
                paragraph (1)(B) (including the adjudication of any 
                appeal) shall not be treated as an assessment described 
                in section 6201.
                    ``(D) Adjudication not treated as inspection of 
                taxpayer's books of account.--The inspection of a 
                taxpayer's books of account in connection with any 
                adjudication under the procedures established under 
                paragraph (1)(B) (including the adjudication of any 
                appeal) shall not be treated as an examination or 
                inspection of a taxpayer's books of account for 
                purposes of section 7605(b).
            ``(3) Retroactive payments.--If, pursuant to the procedures 
        established under paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary determines 
        that a child is a specified child of a taxpayer and the 
        Secretary did not make payments to such taxpayer with respect 
        to such child for any portion of the period during which the 
        determination was made, the Secretary may make a one-time 
        payment to the taxpayer with respect to which such child is the 
        specified child in an amount equal to the aggregate amount by 
        which the monthly advance child payments to such taxpayer would 
        have increased during such period if such determination had 
        been made immediately.
            ``(4) Recapture of payments.--If, pursuant to the 
        procedures established under paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary 
        makes payments with respect to the child during the period 
        during which the determination is made--
                    ``(A) the Secretary shall provide each taxpayer 
                which receives such payments notice that such payments 
                may be subject to recapture, and
                    ``(B) upon making such determination, the Secretary 
                shall determine on the basis of the facts and 
                circumstances of each such taxpayer whether any such 
                payments should be subject to recapture and shall so 
                notify each such taxpayer.
    ``(g) Rules Related to Grace Periods and Hardships.--
            ``(1) Automatic grace period.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (f), 
                in the case of any failure or delay in establishing a 
                period of presumptive eligibility with respect to which 
                the taxpayer elects the application of this 
                subparagraph, credit under section 24A or retroactive 
                payment under this section (similar to the payment 
                described in subsection (f)(3)) shall be allowed or 
                made with respect to so much of the period of such 
                failure or delay as does not exceed 3 months. The 
                preceding sentence shall not apply if the Secretary 
                determines that such failure or delay was due to fraud 
                or reckless or intentional disregard of rules and 
                regulations.
                    ``(B) Limitation.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply 
                with respect to any taxpayer more than once during any 
                36-month period.
            ``(2) Hardship.--Notwithstanding subsection (f), if the 
        Secretary determines that a failure or delay in establishing a 
        period of presumptive eligibility with respect to any specified 
        child was due to domestic violence, serious illness, natural 
        disaster, or any other hardship, credit under section 24A or 
        retroactive payment under this section (similar to the payment 
        described in subsection (f)(3)) shall be allowed or made with 
        respect to so much of the period of such failure or delay as 
        does not exceed 6 months.
    ``(h) Provisions Related to Form, Manner, and Treatment of 
Payments.--
            ``(1) Application of electronic funds payment 
        requirement.--The payments made by the Secretary under 
        subsection (a) shall be made by electronic funds transfer to 
        the same extent and in the same manner as if such payments were 
        Federal payments not made under this title.
            ``(2) Application of certain rules.--Rules similar to the 
        rules of subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section 6428A(f)(3) shall 
        apply for purposes of this section, applied by substituting 
        `January 1, 2022' for `January 1, 2019' in clauses (i) and (ii) 
        of such subparagraph (B).
            ``(3) Exception from reduction or offset.--Any payment made 
        to any individual under this section shall not be--
                    ``(A) subject to reduction or offset pursuant to 
                subsection (c), (d), (e), or (f) of section 6402 or any 
                similar authority permitting offset, or
                    ``(B) reduced or offset by other assessed Federal 
                taxes that would otherwise be subject to levy or 
                collection.
            ``(4) Application of advance payments in the possessions of 
        the united states.--
                    ``(A) Puerto rico.--
                            ``(i) For application of child tax credit 
                        to residents of Puerto Rico, see section 
                        24A(d).
                            ``(ii) For application of monthly advance 
                        child payments to residents of Puerto Rico, see 
                        subsection (b)(4).
                    ``(B) Mirror code possessions.--In the case of any 
                possession of the United States with a mirror code tax 
                system (as defined in section 24A(i)(1)(C)), this 
                section shall not be treated as part of the income tax 
                laws of the United States for purposes of determining 
                the income tax law of such possession unless such 
                possession elects to have this section be so treated.
                    ``(C) Administrative expenses of advance 
                payments.--
                            ``(i) Mirror code possessions.--In the case 
                        of any possession described in subparagraph (B) 
                        which makes the election described in such 
                        subparagraph, the amount otherwise paid by the 
                        Secretary to such possession under section 
                        24A(i)(1)(A) with respect to taxable years 
                        beginning in 2023, 2024, and 2025 shall each be 
                        increased by $300,000 if such possession has a 
                        plan, which has been approved by the Secretary, 
                        for making monthly advance child payments 
                        consistent with such election.
                            ``(ii) American samoa.-- The amount 
                        otherwise paid by the Secretary to American 
                        Samoa under subparagraph (A) of section 
                        24A(i)(3) with respect to taxable years 
                        beginning in 2023, 2024, and 2025 shall each be 
                        increased by $300,000 if the plan described in 
                        subparagraph (B) of such section includes a 
                        program, which has been approved by the 
                        Secretary, for making monthly advance child 
                        payments under rules similar to the rules of 
                        this section.
                            ``(iii) Timing of payment.--The Secretary 
                        may pay, upon the request of the possession of 
                        the United States to which the payment is to be 
                        made, the amount of the increase determined 
                        under clause (i) or (ii), respectively, 
                        immediately upon approval of the plan with 
                        respect to which such payment relates.
    ``(i) Application of Certain Definitions and Rules Applicable to 
Child Tax Credit.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        section, terms used in this section which are also used in 
        section 24A shall have the same respective meanings as when 
        used in section 24A.
            ``(2) Treatment of certain deaths.--A child shall not be 
        taken into account in determining the monthly advance child 
        payment for any calendar month if the death of such child 
        before the beginning of the calendar year which includes such 
        month is known to the Secretary as of date on which the 
        Secretary estimates such payment.
            ``(3) Identification requirements.--Rules similar to the 
        rules which apply under section 24A(e) shall apply for purposes 
        of this section except that such rules shall apply with respect 
        to the return of tax for the reference taxable year or, in the 
        case of information provided through a specified alternative 
        mechanism, with respect to the information provided through 
        such mechanism.
            ``(4) Restrictions on taxpayers who improperly claimed 
        credit or monthly advance child payments.--For restrictions on 
        taxpayers who improperly claimed credit or monthly advance 
        child payments, see section 24A(f).
    ``(j) Notice of Payments.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than January 31 of the 
        calendar year following any calendar year during which the 
        Secretary makes one or more payments to any taxpayer under this 
        section, the Secretary shall provide such taxpayer with a 
        written notice which includes--
                    ``(A) the taxpayer's taxpayer identity (as defined 
                in section 6103(b)(6)),
                    ``(B) the aggregate amount of such payments made to 
                such taxpayer during such calendar year, and
                    ``(C) such other information as the Secretary 
                determines appropriate.
            ``(2) Certain payments subject to recapture.--In the case 
        of any payments made to a taxpayer which the Secretary has 
        determined are subject to recapture, the notice provided under 
        paragraph (1) to such taxpayer shall include the amount of such 
        payments.
    ``(k) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such regulations or 
other guidance as the Secretary determines necessary or appropriate to 
carry out the purposes of this section.
    ``(l) Termination.--No payments shall be made under the program 
established under subsection (a) with respect to any month beginning 
after December 31, 2025.''.
    (c) Suspension of Child Tax Credit During Period That Monthly Child 
Tax Credit Is in Effect.--Section 24 is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsection:
    ``(l) Coordination With Monthly Child Tax Credit.--This section 
shall not apply to (and no payment shall be made under subsection (k) 
with respect to) any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2022, 
and before January 1, 2026.''.
    (d) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 26(b)(2) is amended by striking ``and'' at the 
        end of subparagraph (Y), by striking the period at the end of 
        subparagraph (Z) and inserting ``, and'', and by adding at the 
        end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(AA) section 24A(g)(2) (relating to recapture of 
                certain monthly advance child payments).''.
            (2) Section 152(f)(6)(B)(ii) is amended to read as follows:
                            ``(ii) the credits under sections 24, 24A, 
                        and 24B and the payments under sections 7527A 
                        and 7527B,''.
            (3) Section 3402(f)(1)(C) is amended by inserting ``or 
        section 24A (determined after application of subsection (g) 
        thereof)'' after ``section 24 (determined after application of 
        subsection (j) thereof)''.
            (4) Section 6103(l)(13)(A)(v) is amended by insert ``or 
        section 24A, as the case may be'' after ``section 24''.
            (5) Section 6211(b)(4)(A) is amended by inserting ``24A by 
        reason of subsection (d) thereof,'' after ``24 by reason of 
        subsections (d) and (i)(1) thereof,''.
            (6) Section 6213(g)(2)(I) is amended by inserting ``or 
        section 24A(e) (relating to monthly child tax credit)'' after 
        ``section 24(e) (relating to child tax credit)''.
            (7) Section 6213(g)(2)(L) is amended by inserting ``24A,'' 
        after ``24,''.
            (8) Section 6213(g)(2)(P) is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``or 24A(f)(2)'' after ``section 
                24(g)(2)'',
                    (B) by inserting ``or 24A'' after ``under section 
                24'', and
                    (C) by striking ``subsection (g)(1) thereof'' and 
                inserting ``section 24(g)(1) or section 24A(f)(1), 
                respectively''.
            (9) Section 6695(g)(2) is amended by inserting ``24A,'' 
        after ``24,''.
            (10) Paragraph (2) of section 1324(b) of title 31, United 
        States Code, as amended by the preceding provisions of this 
        Act, is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``24A,'' after ``24,'', and
                    (B) by inserting ``7527B,'' after ``7527A,''.
            (11) The table of sections for subpart A of part IV of 
        subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 24 the following new items:

``Sec. 24A. Monthly child tax credit.
``Sec. 24B. Credit for certain other dependents.''.
            (12) The table of sections for chapter 77 is amended by 
        inserting after the item relating to section 7527A the 
        following new item:

``Sec. 7527B. Monthly payments of child tax credit.''.
    (e) Effective Dates.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the amendments made by this section shall apply to 
        taxable years beginning after December 31, 2022.
            (2) Monthly advance child payments.--The amendments made by 
        subsection (b) shall apply to payments made for calendar months 
        beginning after December 31, 2022.

SEC. 137104. REFUNDABLE CHILD TAX CREDIT AFTER 2025.

    (a) In General.--Section 24, as amended by the preceding provisions 
of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(m) Refundable Credit After 2025.--In the case of any taxable 
year beginning after December 31, 2025, if the taxpayer (in the case of 
a joint return, either spouse) has a principal place of abode in the 
United States (determined as provided in section 32) for more than one-
half of the taxable year or is a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico 
(within the meaning of section 937(a)) for such taxable year--
            ``(1) subsection (d) shall not apply, and
            ``(2) the credit determined under subsection (a) (after 
        application of paragraph (1)) shall be allowed under subpart C 
        (and not allowed under this subpart).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments Related to Possessions of the United 
States.--
            (1) Puerto rico.--Section 24(k)(2) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B) (as amended by the 
                preceding provisions of this Act)--
                            (i) by inserting ``and before January 1, 
                        2026,'' after ``December 31, 2022,'', and
                            (ii) by inserting ``and before 2026'' after 
                        ``After 2022'', and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Application to taxable years after 2025.--For 
                application of refundable credit to residents of Puerto 
                Rico for taxable years after 2025, see subsection 
                (m).''.
            (2) American samoa.--Section 24(k)(3)(C)(ii), as amended by 
        the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended--
                    (A) in subclause (I), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end,
                    (B) in subclause (II)--
                            (i) by inserting ``and before January 1, 
                        2026,'' after ``after December 31, 2022,'', and
                            (ii) by striking the period at the end and 
                        inserting ``, and'', and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subclause:
                                    ``(III) if such taxable year begins 
                                after December 31, 2025, subsection (m) 
                                shall be applied by substituting 
                                `Puerto Rico or American Samoa' for 
                                `Puerto Rico'.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 137105. APPROPRIATIONS.

    Immediately upon the enactment of this Act, in addition to amounts 
otherwise available, there are appropriated out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated:
            (1) $9,000,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
        2026, for necessary expenses for the Internal Revenue Service 
        to administer the Child Tax Credit, and advance payments of the 
        Child Tax Credit, including the costs of disbursing such 
        payments, which shall supplement and not supplant any other 
        appropriations that may be available for this purpose, and
            (2) $1,000,000,000 is appropriated to the Department of the 
        Treasury, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to 
        support efforts to increase enrollment of eligible families in 
        the Child Tax Credit, for advance payments of the Child Tax 
        Credit, and for other tax benefits, including but not limited 
        to program outreach, costs of data sharing arrangements, 
        systems changes, forms changes, and related efforts, and 
        efforts by federal agencies to facilitate the cross-enrollment 
        of beneficiaries of other programs in the Child Tax Credit, and 
        for advance payments of the Child Tax Credit, including by 
        establishing intergovernmental cooperative agreements with 
        states and local governments, tribal governments, and 
        possessions of the United States: Provided, that such amount 
        shall be available in addition to any amounts otherwise 
        available: Provided further, that these funds may be awarded by 
        federal agencies to state and local governments, tribal 
        governments, and possessions of the United States, and private 
        entities, including organizations dedicated to free tax return 
        preparation.
