---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Part 2 - Child And Dependent Care Tax Credit

## SEC. 137201. CERTAIN IMPROVEMENTS TO THE CHILD AND DEPENDENT CARE 
              CREDIT MADE PERMANENT.

    (a) Credit Refundable for Taxpayers With Principal Place of Abode 
in the United States.--Section 21(g) is amended to read as follows;
    ``(g) Credit Refundable for Taxpayers With Principal Place of Abode 
in the United States.--If the taxpayer (in the case of a joint return, 
either spouse) has a principal place of abode in the United States 
(determined as provided in section 32) for more than one-half of the 
taxable year, the credit allowed under subsection (a) shall be treated 
as a credit allowed under subpart C (and not allowed under this 
subpart).''.
    (b) Increase in Dollar Limit on Amount Creditable.--Section 21(c) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$3,000'' in paragraph (1) and inserting 
        ``$8,000'', and
            (2) by striking ``$6,000'' in paragraph (2) and inserting 
        ``$16,000''.
    (c) Increase in Applicable Percentage.--Section 21(a)(2) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``35 percent'' and inserting ``50 
        percent'', and
            (2) by striking ``$15,000'' and inserting ``$125,000''.
    (d) Application of Increased Dollar Limitation to Spouses Who Are 
Students or Incapable of Caring for Themselves.--Section 21(d)(2) is 
amended by striking ``of not less than--'' and all that follows through 
``In the case of'' and inserting ``of not less than \1/12\ of the 
dollar amount in effect under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (c) 
(whichever is applicable to the taxpayer for the taxable year). In the 
case of''.
    (e) Inflation Adjustment.--Section 21(e) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(11) Inflation adjustment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of any taxable year 
                beginning after December 31, 2021, the $125,000 amount 
                in subsection (a)(2), the $8,000 amount in subsection 
                (c)(1), and the $16,000 amount in subsection (c)(2) 
                shall each be increased by an amount equal to--
                            ``(i) such dollar amount, multiplied by
                            ``(ii) the cost-of-living adjustment 
                        determined under section 1(f)(3) for the 
                        calendar year in which the taxable year begins, 
                        determined by substituting `calendar year 2020' 
                        for `calendar year 2016' in subparagraph 
                        (A)(ii) thereof.
                    ``(B) Rounding.--
                            ``(i) Limitation based on adjusted gross 
                        income.--If any increase determined under 
                        subparagraph (A) of the $125,000 dollar amount 
                        in subsection (a)(2) is not a multiple of 
                        $5,000, such amount shall be rounded to the 
                        nearest multiple of $5,000.
                            ``(i) Dollar limitations.--If any increase 
                        determined under subparagraph (A) of any dollar 
                        amount in subsection (c) is not a multiple of 
                        $100, such amount shall be rounded to the 
                        nearest multiple of $100.''.
    (f) Application of Phaseout to High Income Individuals.--
            (1) In general.--Section 21(a)(2) is amended by striking 
        ``20 percent'' and inserting ``the phaseout percentage''.
            (2) Phaseout percentage.--Section 21(a) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Phaseout percentage.--For purposes of paragraph (2), 
        the term `phaseout percentage' means 20 percent reduced (but 
        not below zero) by 1 percentage point for each $2,000 (or 
        fraction thereof) by which the taxpayer's adjusted gross income 
        for the taxable year exceeds $400,000.''.
    (g) Application of Credit in Possessions.--Section 21(h) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting 
                ``With respect to taxable years beginning in or with 
                calendar years after 2020, the Secretary'', and
                    (B) by striking ``with respect to taxable years 
                beginning in or with 2021'',
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting 
                ``With respect to taxable years beginning in or with 
                calendar years after 2020, the Secretary'', and
                    (B) by striking ``with respect to taxable years 
                beginning in or with 2021'', and
            (3) in paragraph (3), by striking ``in or with 2021'' and 
        inserting ``after December 31, 2020''.
    (h) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 137202. INCREASE IN EXCLUSION FOR EMPLOYER-PROVIDED DEPENDENT CARE 
              ASSISTANCE MADE PERMANENT.

    (a) In General.--Section 129(a)(2)(A) is amended by striking 
``$5,000 ($2,500'' and inserting ``$10,500 (half such dollar amount''.
    (b) Inflation Adjustment.--Section 129(e) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(10) Inflation adjustment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of any taxable year 
                beginning after December 31, 2021, the $10,500 amount 
                in subsection (a)(2)(A) shall be increased by an amount 
                equal to--
                            ``(i) such dollar amount, multiplied by
                            ``(ii) the cost-of-living adjustment 
                        determined under section 1(f)(3) for the 
                        calendar year in which the taxable year begins, 
                        determined by substituting `calendar year 2020' 
                        for `calendar year 2016' in subparagraph 
                        (A)(ii) thereof.
                    ``(B) Rounding.--If any increase determined under 
                subparagraph (A) is not a multiple of $100, such amount 
                shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $100.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 129(a)(2) is amended by striking 
subparagraph (D).
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.
    (e) Retroactive Plan Amendments.--A plan that otherwise satisfies 
all applicable requirements of sections 125 and 129 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 (including any rules or regulations thereunder) 
shall not fail to be treated as a cafeteria plan or dependent care 
assistance program merely because such plan is amended pursuant to a 
provision under this subsection and such amendment is retroactive, if--
            (1) such amendment is adopted no later than the last day of 
        the plan year in which the amendment is effective, and
            (2) the plan is operated consistent with the terms of such 
        amendment during the period beginning on the effective date of 
        the amendment and ending on the date the amendment is adopted.
