---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Part 4 - Earned Income Tax Credit

SEC. 137401. CERTAIN IMPROVEMENTS TO THE EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT MADE 
              PERMANENT.

    (a) Decrease in Minimum Age Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--Section 32(c)(1)(A)(ii)(II) is amended by 
        striking ``age 25'' and inserting ``the applicable minimum 
        age''.
            (2) Applicable minimum age.--Section 32(c) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Applicable minimum age.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `applicable minimum 
                age' means--
                            ``(i) except as otherwise provided in this 
                        subparagraph, age 19,
                            ``(ii) in the case of a specified student 
                        (other than a qualified former foster youth or 
                        a qualified homeless youth), age 24, and
                            ``(iii) in the case of a qualified former 
                        foster youth or a qualified homeless youth, age 
                        18.
                    ``(B) Specified student.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, the term `specified student' means, with 
                respect to any taxable year, an individual who is an 
                eligible student (as defined in section 25A(b)(3)) 
                during at least 5 calendar months during the taxable 
                year.
                    ``(C) Qualified former foster youth.--For purposes 
                of this paragraph, the term `qualified former foster 
                youth' means an individual who--
                            ``(i) on or after the date that such 
                        individual attained age 14, was in foster care 
                        provided under the supervision or 
                        administration of an entity administering (or 
                        eligible to administer) a plan under part B or 
                        part E of title IV of the Social Security Act 
                        (without regard to whether Federal assistance 
                        was provided with respect to such child under 
                        such part E), and
                            ``(ii) provides (in such manner as the 
                        Secretary may provide) consent for entities 
                        which administer a plan under part B or part E 
                        of title IV of the Social Security Act to 
                        disclose to the Secretary information related 
                        to the status of such individual as a qualified 
                        former foster youth.
                    ``(D) Qualified homeless youth.--For purposes of 
                this paragraph, the term `qualified homeless youth' 
                means, with respect to any taxable year, an individual 
                who certifies, in a manner as provided by the 
                Secretary, that such individual is either an 
                unaccompanied youth who is a homeless child or youth, 
                or is unaccompanied, at risk of homelessness, and self-
                supporting.''.
    (b) Elimination of Maximum Age for Credit.--Section 
32(c)(1)(A)(ii)(II) is amended by striking ``but not attained age 65''.
    (c) Increase in Credit and Phaseout Percentages.--The table 
contained in section 32(b)(1) is amended by striking ``7.65'' each 
place it appears therein and inserting ``15.3''.
    (d) Increase in Earned Income and Phaseout Amounts.--
            (1) In general.--The table contained in section 32(b)(2)(A) 
        is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``$4,220'' and inserting 
                ``$9,820'', and
                    (B) by striking ``$5,280'' and inserting 
                ``$11,610''.
            (2) Application of inflation adjustment.--Section 32(j)(1) 
        is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``(2021 in the case of the dollar 
                amount in subsection (i)(1))'' and inserting ``(2021 in 
                the case of the $9,820 and $11,610 amounts in 
                subsection (b)(2)(A) and the $10,000 amount in 
                subsection (i)(1))'',
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)(i), by inserting ``(other 
                than the $9,820 and $11,610 amounts)'' after 
                ``subsection (b)(2)(A)'', and
                    (C) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by inserting ``the 
                $9,820 and $11,610 amounts in subsection (b)(2)(A) 
                and'' before ``the $10,000 amount in subsection 
                (i)(1)''.
    (e) Section 32, as amended by subsection (f), is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(n) Election to Determine Earned Income Based on Prior Taxable 
Year.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of a taxpayer whose earned 
        income for any taxable year is less than the earned income of 
        such taxpayer for the preceding taxable year, if such taxpayer 
        elects (at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may 
        provide) the application of this subsection for such taxable 
        year, the earned income of such taxpayer for such taxable year 
        shall be treated for purposes of this section as being equal to 
        the earned income of such taxpayer for such preceding taxable 
        year.
            ``(2) Joint returns.--For purposes of this subsection, in 
        the case of a joint return, the earned income of the taxpayer 
        for the preceding taxable year shall be the sum of the earned 
        income of each spouse for the preceding taxable year.
            ``(3) Treatment as mathematical or clerical error.--In the 
        case of a taxpayer described in paragraph (1) who makes the 
        election described in such paragraph, the use on the return for 
        purposes of this section of an amount of earned income for the 
        preceding taxable year which differs from the amount of such 
        earned income as shown in the electronic files of the Internal 
        Revenue Service shall be treated as a mathematical or clerical 
        error for purposes of section 6213.
            ``(4) Treatment of references.--Any provision of this title 
        which defines or determines earned income by reference to this 
        section shall be applied without regard to this subsection 
        unless such provision specifically provides otherwise.''.
    (f) Repeal of Temporary Provisions.--Section 32 is amended by 
striking subsection (n).
    (g) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 137402. FUNDS FOR ADMINISTRATION OF EARNED INCOME TAX CREDITS IN 
              THE TERRITORIES.

    (a) Puerto Rico.--Section 7530(a)(1) is amended by striking 
``plus'' at the end of subparagraph (A), by striking the period at the 
end of subparagraph (B) and inserting ``, plus'', and by adding at the 
end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) reasonable administrative costs associated 
                with the provision of the earned income tax credit not 
                in excess of $4,000,000.''.
    (b) Possessions With Mirror Code Tax Systems.--Section 7530(b)(1) 
is amended by striking ``plus'' at the end of subparagraph (A), by 
striking the period at the end of subparagraph (B) and inserting ``, 
plus'', and by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) reasonable administrative costs associated 
                with the provision of the earned income tax credit not 
                in excess of $200,000.''.
    (c) American Samoa.--Section 7530(c)(1) is amended by striking 
``plus'' at the end of subparagraph (A), by striking the period at the 
end of subparagraph (B) and inserting ``, plus'', and by adding at the 
end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) reasonable administrative costs associated 
                with the provision of the earned income tax credit not 
                in excess of $200,000.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to payments made for calendar years beginning after December 31, 
2021.

     PART 5--EXPANDING ACCESS TO HEALTH COVERAGE AND LOWERING COSTS

SEC. 137501. IMPROVE AFFORDABILITY AND REDUCE PREMIUM COSTS OF HEALTH 
              INSURANCE FOR CONSUMERS.

    (a) Increase in Applicable Percentage Made Permanent.--Section 
36B(b)(3)(A) is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(A) Applicable percentage.--The applicable 
                percentage for any taxable year shall be the percentage 
                such that the applicable percentage for any taxpayer 
                whose household income is within an income tier 
                specified in the following table shall increase, on a 
                sliding scale in a linear manner, from the initial 
                premium percentage to the final premium percentage 
                specified in such table for such income tier:


------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ``In the case of household  income
 (expressed as  a percent of poverty     The initial        The final
  line)  within the following income       premium           premium
                tier:                  percentage is--   percentage is--
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Up to 150.0 percent..................                0                0
150.0 percent up to 200.0 percent....                0                2
200.0 percent up to 250.0 percent....                2                4
250.0 percent up to 300.0 percent....                4                6
300.0 percent up to 400.0 percent....                6              8.5
400.0 percent and higher.............              8.5           8.5''.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Credit Allowed to Taxpayers Whose Household Income Exceeds 400 
Percent of the Poverty Line.--
            (1) In general.--Section 36B(c)(1)(A) is amended by 
        striking ``but does not exceed 400 percent''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 36B(c)(1) is amended by 
        striking subparagraph (E).
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 137502. MODIFICATION OF EMPLOYER-SPONSORED COVERAGE AFFORDABILITY 
              TEST IN HEALTH INSURANCE PREMIUM TAX CREDIT.

    (a) In General.--Section 36B(c)(2)(C) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i)(II), by striking ``9.5 percent'' and 
        inserting ``8.5 percent'', and
            (2) by striking clause (iv).
    (b) Qualified Small Employer Health Reimbursement Arrangements.--
Section 36B(c)(4) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (C)(ii), by striking ``9.5 percent'' 
        and inserting ``8.5 percent'', and
            (2) by striking subparagraph (F).
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 137503. TREATMENT OF LUMP-SUM SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS IN 
              DETERMINING HOUSEHOLD INCOME.

    (a) In General.--Section 36B(d)(2) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Exclusion of portion of lump-sum social 
                security benefits.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The term `modified 
                        adjusted gross income' shall not include so 
                        much of any lump-sum social security benefit 
                        payment as is attributable to months ending 
                        before the beginning of the taxable year.
                            ``(ii) Lump-sum social security benefit 
                        payment.--For purposes of this subparagraph, 
                        the term `lump-sum social security benefit 
                        payment' means any payment of social security 
                        benefits (as defined in section 86(d)(1)) which 
                        constitutes more than 1 month of such benefits.
                            ``(iii) Election to include excludable 
                        amount.--With respect to any taxable year 
                        beginning on or after the termination date (as 
                        defined in subsection (h)(2)), a taxpayer may 
                        elect (at such time and in such manner as the 
                        Secretary may provide) to have this 
                        subparagraph not apply for such taxable 
                        year.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 137504. TEMPORARY EXPANSION OF HEALTH INSURANCE PREMIUM TAX 
              CREDITS FOR CERTAIN LOW-INCOME POPULATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 36B is amended by redesignating subsection 
(h) as subsection (i) and by inserting after subsection (g) the 
following new subsection:
    ``(h) Certain Temporary Rules Beginning in 2022.--
            ``(1) In general.--With respect to any taxable year 
        beginning after December 31, 2021, and before the termination 
        date--
                    ``(A) Eligibility for credit not limited based on 
                income.--Section 36B(c)(1)(A) shall be disregarded in 
                determining whether a taxpayer is an applicable 
                taxpayer.
                    ``(B) Credit allowed to certain low-income 
                employees offered employer-provided coverage.--
                Subclause (II) of subsection (c)(2)(C)(i) shall not 
                apply if the taxpayer's household income does not 
                exceed 138 percent of the poverty line for a family of 
                the size involved. Subclause (II) of subsection 
                (c)(2)(C)(i) shall also not apply to an individual 
                described in the last sentence of such subsection if 
                the taxpayer's household income does not exceed 138 
                percent of the poverty line for a family of the size 
                involved.
                    ``(C) Credit allowed to certain low-income 
                employees offered qualified small employer health 
                reimbursement arrangements.--A qualified small employer 
                health reimbursement arrangement shall not be treated 
                as constituting affordable coverage for an employee (or 
                any spouse or dependent of such employee) for any 
                months of a taxable year if the employee's household 
                income for such taxable year does not exceed 138 
                percent of the poverty line for a family of the size 
                involved.
                    ``(D) Limitations on recapture.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In the case of a 
                        taxpayer whose household income is less than 
                        200 percent of the poverty line for the size of 
                        the family involved for the taxable year, the 
                        amount of the increase under subsection 
                        (f)(2)(A) shall in no event exceed $300 (one-
                        half of such amount in the case of a taxpayer 
                        whose tax is determined under section 1(c) for 
                        the taxable year).
                            ``(ii) Limitation on increase for certain 
                        non-filers.--In the case of any taxpayer who 
                        would not be required to file a return of tax 
                        for the taxable year but for any requirement to 
                        reconcile advance credit payments under 
                        subsection (f), if an Exchange established 
                        under title I of the Patient Protection and 
                        Affordable Care Act has determined that--
                                    ``(I) such taxpayer is eligible for 
                                advance payments under section 1412 of 
                                such Act for any portion of such 
                                taxable year, and
                                    ``(II) such taxpayer's household 
                                income for such taxable year is 
                                projected to not exceed 138 percent of 
                                the poverty line for a family of the 
                                size involved,
                        subsection (f)(2)(A) shall not apply to such 
                        taxpayer for such taxable year and such 
                        taxpayer shall not be required to file such 
                        return of tax.
                            ``(iii) Information provided by exchange.--
                        The information required to be provided by an 
                        Exchange to the Secretary and to the taxpayer 
                        under subsection (f)(3) shall include such 
                        information as is necessary to determine 
                        whether such Exchange has made the 
                        determinations described in subclauses (I) and 
                        (II) of clause (ii) with respect to such 
                        taxpayer.
            ``(2) Termination date.--For purposes of this subsection, 
        the term `termination date' means the later of--
                    ``(A) January 1, 2025, or
                    ``(B) the date on which the Secretary of Health and 
                Human Services makes a written certification to the 
                Secretary that the Secretary of Health and Human 
                Services has fully implemented the program described in 
                section 1948 of the Social Security Act (relating to 
                Federal Medicaid program to close coverage gap in 
                nonexpansion States).''.
    (b) Employer Shared Responsibility Provision Not Applicable With 
Respect to Certain Low-income Taxpayers Receiving Premium Assistance.--
Section 4980H(c)(3) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(3) Applicable premium tax credit and cost-sharing 
        reduction.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `applicable premium tax 
                credit and cost-sharing reduction' means--
                            ``(i) any premium tax credit allowed under 
                        section 36B,
                            ``(ii) any cost-sharing reduction under 
                        section 1402 of the Patient Protection and 
                        Affordable Care Act, and
                            ``(iii) any advance payment of such credit 
                        or reduction under section 1412 of such Act.
                    ``(B) Exception with respect to certain low-income 
                taxpayers.--Such term shall not include any premium tax 
                credit, cost-sharing reduction, or advance payment 
                otherwise described in subparagraph (A) if such credit, 
                reduction, or payment is allowed or paid for a taxable 
                year of an employee (beginning after December 31, 2021, 
                and before the termination date, as defined in section 
                36B(h)(2)) with respect to which--
                            ``(i) an Exchange established under title I 
                        of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
                        Act has determined that such employee's 
                        household income for such taxable year is 
                        projected to not exceed 138 percent of the 
                        poverty line for a family of the size involved, 
                        or
                            ``(ii) such employee's household income for 
                        such taxable year does not exceed 138 percent 
                        of the poverty line for a family of the size 
                        involved.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 137505. ENSURING AFFORDABILITY OF COVERAGE FOR CERTAIN LOW-INCOME 
              POPULATIONS.

    (a) Reducing Cost Sharing Under Qualified Health Plans.--Section 
1402 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 
18071) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``(or, with 
                respect to plan years 2023 and 2024, whose household 
                income does not exceed 400 percent of the poverty line 
                for a family of the size involved)'' before the period; 
                and
                    (B) in the matter following paragraph (2), by 
                adding at the end the following new sentence: ``In the 
                case of an individual with a household income of less 
                than 138 percent of the poverty line for a family of 
                the size involved for any month occurring during the 
                period beginning on January 1, 2022, and ending on 
                December 31, 2022, such individual shall, for such 
                month and for each succeeding month during such period, 
                be treated as having household income equal to 100 
                percent for purposes of applying this section.''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(A), in the matter preceding 
                clause (i), by inserting ``, with respect to eligible 
                insureds (other than, with respect to plan years 2023 
                and 2024, specified enrollees (as defined in paragraph 
                (6)(C))),'' after ``first be achieved'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by inserting ``with respect to 
                eligible insureds (other than, with respect to plan 
                years 2023 and 2024, specified enrollees)'' after 
                ``under the plan'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``this 
                        subsection'' and inserting ``paragraph (1) or 
                        (2)''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                        ``this section'' and inserting ``paragraphs (1) 
                        and (2)''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(6) Special rule for specified enrollees.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall establish 
                procedures under which the issuer of a qualified health 
                plan to which this section applies shall reduce cost-
                sharing under the plan with respect to months occurring 
                during plan years 2023 and 2024 for enrollees who are 
                specified enrollees (as defined in subparagraph (C)) in 
                a manner sufficient to increase the plan's share of the 
                total allowed costs of benefits provided under the plan 
                to 99 percent of such costs.
                    ``(B) Methods for reducing cost sharing.--
                            ``(i) In general.--An issuer of a qualified 
                        health plan making reductions under this 
                        paragraph shall notify the Secretary of such 
                        reductions and the Secretary shall, out of 
                        funds made available under clause (ii), make 
                        periodic and timely payments to the issuer 
                        equal to 12 percent of the total allowed costs 
                        of benefits provided under each such plan to 
                        specified enrollees during plan years 2023 and 
                        2024.
                            ``(ii) Appropriation.--There are 
                        appropriated, out of any monies in the Treasury 
                        not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be 
                        necessary to the Secretary for purposes of 
                        making payments under clause (i).
                    ``(C) Specified enrollee defined.--For purposes of 
                this section, the term `specified enrollee' means, with 
                respect to a month occurring during a plan year, an 
                eligible insured with a household income of less than 
                138 percent of the poverty line for a family of the 
                size involved during such month. Such insured shall be 
                deemed to be a specified enrollee for each succeeding 
                month in such plan year.''.
    (b) Open Enrollments Applicable to Certain Lower-income 
Populations.--Section 1311(c) of the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18031(c)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (6)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking at the end 
                ``and'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(E) with respect to a qualified health plan with 
                respect to which section 1402 applies, for months 
                occurring during the period beginning on January 1, 
                2022, and ending on December 31, 2024, enrollment 
                periods described in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (8) 
                for individuals described in subparagraph (B) of such 
                paragraph.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(8) Special enrollment period for certain low-income 
        populations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The enrollment period described 
                in this paragraph is, in the case of an individual 
                described in subparagraph (B), the continuous period 
                beginning on the first day that such individual is so 
                described.
                    ``(B) Individual described.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A), an individual described in this 
                subparagraph is an individual--
                            ``(i) with a household income of less than 
                        138 percent of the poverty line for a family of 
                        the size involved; and
                            ``(ii) who is not eligible for minimum 
                        essential coverage (as defined in section 
                        5000A(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986), 
                        other than for coverage described in any of 
                        subparagraphs (B) through (E) of paragraph (1) 
                        of such section.''.
    (c) Additional Benefits for Certain Low-income Individuals for Plan 
Year 2024.--Section 1301(a) of the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18021(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (C)(iv), by striking the period 
                and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(D) provides, with respect to a plan offered in 
                the silver level of coverage to which section 1402 
                applies during plan year 2024, for benefits described 
                in paragraph (5) in the case of an individual who, for 
                a month during such plan year, has a household income 
                of less than 138 percent of the poverty line for a 
                family of the size involved, and who is eligible to 
                receive cost-sharing reductions under section 1402.''; 
                and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Additional benefits for certain low-income 
        individuals for plan year 2024.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of paragraph 
                (1)(D), the benefits described in this paragraph to be 
                provided by a qualified health plan are benefits 
                consisting of non-emergency medical transportation 
                services and services described in subsection (a)(4)(C) 
                of section 1905 of the Social Security Act, without any 
                restriction on the choice of a qualified provider from 
                whom such an individual so enrolled in such plan may 
                receive such services described in such subsection, and 
                without any imposition of cost sharing, which are not 
                otherwise provided under such plan as part of the 
                essential health benefits package described in section 
                1302(a).
                    ``(B) Payments for additional benefits.--
                            ``(i) In general.--An issuer of a qualified 
                        health plan making payments for services 
                        described in subparagraph (A) furnished to 
                        individuals described in paragraph (1)(D) 
                        during plan year 2024 shall notify the 
                        Secretary of such payments and the Secretary 
                        shall, out of funds made available under clause 
                        (ii), make periodic and timely payments to the 
                        issuer equal to payments for such services so 
                        furnished.
                            ``(ii) Appropriation.--There is 
                        appropriated, out of any monies in the Treasury 
                        not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be 
                        necessary to the Secretary for purposes of 
                        making payments under clause (i).''.
    (d) Education and Outreach Activities.----
            (1) In general.--Section 1321(c) of the Patient Protection 
        and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18041(c)) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Outreach and educational activities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of an Exchange 
                established or operated by the Secretary within a State 
                pursuant to this subsection, the Secretary shall carry 
                out outreach and educational activities for purposes of 
                informing individuals described in section 
                1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) of the Social Security Act who 
                reside in States that have not expended amounts under a 
                State plan (or waiver of such plan) under title XIX of 
                such Act for all such individuals about qualified 
                health plans offered through the Exchange, including by 
                informing such individuals of the availability of 
                coverage under such plans and financial assistance for 
                coverage under such plans. Such outreach and 
                educational activities shall be provided in a manner 
                that is culturally and linguistically appropriate to 
                the needs of the populations being served by the 
                Exchange (including hard-to-reach populations, such as 
                racial and sexual minorities, limited English 
                proficient populations, individuals residing in areas 
                where the unemployment rates exceeds the national 
                average unemployment rate, individuals in rural areas, 
                veterans, and young adults).
                    ``(B) Limitation on use of funds.--No funds 
                appropriated under this paragraph shall be used for 
                expenditures for promoting non-ACA compliant health 
                insurance coverage.
                    ``(C) Non-aca compliant health insurance 
                coverage.--For purposes of subparagraph (B):
                            ``(i) The term `non-ACA compliant health 
                        insurance coverage' means health insurance 
                        coverage, or a group health plan, that is not a 
                        qualified health plan.
                            ``(ii) Such term includes the following:
                                    ``(I) An association health plan.
                                    ``(II) Short-term limited duration 
                                insurance.
                    ``(D) Funding.--There are appropriated, out of any 
                monies in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
                $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2022, and $30,000,000 for 
                each of fiscal years 2023 and 2024, to carry out this 
                paragraph. Funds appropriated under this subparagraph 
                shall remain available until expended.''.
            (2) Navigator program.--Section 1311(i)(6) of the Patient 
        Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18031(i)(6)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Funding.--Grants under'' and 
                inserting ``Funding.--
                    ``(A) State exchanges.--Grants under''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(B) Federal exchanges.--For purposes of carrying 
                out this subsection, with respect to an Exchange 
                established and operated by the Secretary within a 
                State pursuant to section 1321(c), the Secretary shall 
                obligate $10,000,000 out of amounts collected through 
                the user fees on participating health insurance issuers 
                pursuant to section 156.50 of title 45, Code of Federal 
                Regulations (or any successor regulations) for fiscal 
                year 2022, and $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
                2023 and 2024. Such amount so obligated for a fiscal 
                year shall remain available until expended.''.

SEC. 137506. ESTABLISHING A HEALTH INSURANCE AFFORDABILITY FUND.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle D of title I of the Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act is amended by inserting after part 5 (42 U.S.C. 
18061 et seq.) the following new part:

         ``PART 6--IMPROVE HEALTH INSURANCE AFFORDABILITY FUND

``SEC. 1351. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.

    ``There is hereby established the `Improve Health Insurance 
Affordability Fund' to be administered by the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, acting through the Administrator of the Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services (in this section referred to as the 
`Administrator'), to provide funding, in accordance with this part, to 
the 50 States and the District of Columbia (each referred to in this 
section as a `State') beginning on January 1, 2023, for the purposes 
described in section 1352.

``SEC. 1352. USE OF FUNDS.

    ``(a) In General.--A State shall use the funds allocated to the 
State under this part for one of the following purposes:
            ``(1) To provide reinsurance payments to health insurance 
        issuers with respect to individuals enrolled under individual 
        health insurance coverage (other than through a plan described 
        in subsection (b)) offered by such issuers.
            ``(2) To provide assistance (other than through payments 
        described in paragraph (1)) to reduce out-of-pocket costs, such 
        as copayments, coinsurance, premiums, and deductibles, of 
        individuals enrolled under qualified health plans offered on 
        the individual market through an Exchange and of individuals 
        enrolled under standard health plans offered through a basic 
        health program established under section 1331.
    ``(b) Exclusion of Certain Grandfathered Plans, Transitional Plans, 
Student Health Plans, and Excepted Benefits.--For purposes of 
subsection (a), a plan described in this subsection is the following:
            ``(1) A grandfathered health plan (as defined in section 
        1251).
            ``(2) A plan (commonly referred to as a `transitional 
        plan') continued under the letter issued by the Centers for 
        Medicare & Medicaid Services on November 14, 2013, to the State 
        Insurance Commissioners outlining a transitional policy for 
        coverage in the individual and small group markets to which 
        section 1251 does not apply, and under the extension of the 
        transitional policy for such coverage set forth in the 
        Insurance Standards Bulletin Series guidance issued by the 
        Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services on March 5, 2014, 
        February 29, 2016, February 13, 2017, April 9, 2018, March 25, 
        2019, January 31, 2020, and January 19, 2021, or under any 
        subsequent extensions thereof.
            ``(3) Student health insurance coverage (as defined in 
        section 147.145 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, or 
        any successor regulation).
            ``(4) Excepted benefits (as defined in section 2791(c) of 
        the Public Health Service Act).

``SEC. 1353. STATE ELIGIBILITY AND APPROVAL; DEFAULT SAFEGUARD.

    ``(a) Encouraging State Options for Allocations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to subsection (b), to be 
        eligible for an allocation of funds under this part for a year 
        (beginning with 2023), a State shall submit to the 
        Administrator an application at such time (but, in the case of 
        allocations for 2023, not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this part and, in the case of allocations for 
        a subsequent year, not later than January 1 of the previous 
        year) and in such form and manner as specified by the 
        Administrator containing--
                    ``(A) a description of how the funds will be used; 
                and
                    ``(B) such other information as the Administrator 
                may require.
            ``(2) Automatic approval.--An application so submitted is 
        approved (as outlined in the terms of the plan) unless the 
        Administrator notifies the State submitting the application, 
        not later than 90 days after the date of the submission of such 
        application, that the application has been denied for not being 
        in compliance with any requirement of this part and of the 
        reason for such denial.
            ``(3) 5-year application approval.--If an application of a 
        State is approved for a purpose described in section 1352 for a 
        year, such application shall be treated as approved for such 
        purpose for each of the subsequent 4 years.
            ``(4) Oversight authority and authority to revoke 
        approval.--
                    ``(A) Oversight.--The Secretary may conduct 
                periodic reviews of the use of funds provided to a 
                State under this section, with respect to a purpose 
                described in section 1352, to ensure the State uses 
                such funds for such purpose and otherwise complies with 
                the requirements of this section.
                    ``(B) Revocation of approval.--The approval of an 
                application of a State, with respect to a purpose 
                described in section 1352, may be revoked if the State 
                fails to use funds provided to the State under this 
                section for such purpose or otherwise fails to comply 
                with the requirements of this section.
    ``(b) Default Federal Safeguard for 2023 and 2024 for Certain 
States.--
            ``(1) In general.--For 2023 and 2024, in the case of a 
        State described in paragraph (5), with respect to such year, 
        the State shall not be eligible to submit an application under 
        subsection (a), and the Administrator, in consultation with the 
        applicable State authority, shall from the amount calculated 
        under paragraph (3) for such year, carry out the purpose 
        described in paragraph (2) in such State for such year.
            ``(2) Specified use.--The amount described in paragraph 
        (3), with respect to a State described in paragraph (5) for 
        2023 or 2024, shall be used to carry out the purpose described 
        in section 1352(a)(1) in such State for such year, as 
        applicable, by providing reinsurance payments to health 
        insurance issuers with respect to attachment range claims (as 
        defined in section 1354(b)(2), using the dollar amounts 
        specified in subparagraph (B) of such section for such year) in 
        an amount equal to, subject to paragraph (4), the percentage 
        (specified for such year by the Secretary under such 
        subparagraph) of the amount of such claims.
            ``(3) Amount described.--The amount described in this 
        paragraph, with respect to 2023 or 2024, is the amount equal to 
        the total sum of amounts that the Secretary would otherwise 
        estimate under section 1354(b)(2)(A)(i) for such year for each 
        State described in paragraph (5) for such year, as applicable, 
        if each such State were not so described for such year.
            ``(4) Adjustment.--For purposes of this subsection, the 
        Secretary may apply a percentage under paragraph (3) with 
        respect to a year that is less than the percentage otherwise 
        specified in section 1354(b)(2)(B) for such year, if the cost 
        of paying the total eligible attachment range claims for States 
        described in paragraph (5) for such year at such percentage 
        otherwise specified would exceed the amount calculated under 
        paragraph (3) for such year.
            ``(5) State described.--A State described in this 
        paragraph, with respect to years 2023 and 2024, is a State 
        that, as of January 1 of 2022 or 2023, respectively, was not 
        expending amounts under the State plan (or waiver of such plan) 
        for all individuals described in section 
        1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) during such year.

``SEC. 1354. ALLOCATIONS.

    ``(a) Appropriation.--For the purpose of providing allocations for 
States under subsection (b) and payments under section 1353(b) there is 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $10,000,000,000 for 2023 and each subsequent year.
    ``(b) Allocations.--
            ``(1) Payment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--From amounts appropriated under 
                subsection (a) for a year, the Secretary shall, with 
                respect to a State not described in section 1353(b) for 
                such year and not later than the date specified under 
                subparagraph (B) for such year, allocate for such State 
                the amount determined for such State and year under 
                paragraph (2).
                    ``(B) Specified date.--For purposes of subparagraph 
                (A), the date specified in this subparagraph is--
                            ``(i) for 2023, the date that is 90 days 
                        after the date of the enactment of this part; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) for 2024 or a subsequent year, 
                        January 1 of the previous year.
                    ``(C) Notifications of allocation amounts.--For 
                2024 and each subsequent year, the Secretary shall 
                notify each State of the amount determined for such 
                State under paragraph (2) for such year by not later 
                than January 1 of the previous year.
            ``(2) Allocation amount determinations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of paragraph (1), 
                the amount determined under this paragraph for a year 
                for a State described in paragraph (1)(A) for such year 
                is the amount equal to--
                            ``(i) the amount that the Secretary 
                        estimates would be expended under this part for 
                        such year on attachment range claims of 
                        individuals residing in such State if such 
                        State used such funds only for the purpose 
                        described in paragraph (1) of section 1352(a) 
                        at the dollar amounts and percentage specified 
                        under subparagraph (B) for such year; minus
                            ``(ii) the amount, if any, by which the 
                        Secretary determines--
                                    ``(I) the estimated amount of 
                                premium tax credits under section 36B 
                                of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
                                that would be attributable to 
                                individuals residing in such State for 
                                such year without application of this 
                                part; exceeds
                                    ``(II) the estimated amount of 
                                premium tax credits under section 36B 
                                of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
                                that would be attributable to 
                                individuals residing in such State for 
                                such year if section 1353(b) applied 
                                for such year and applied with respect 
                                to such State for such year.
                For purposes of the previous sentence and section 
                1353(b)(3), the term `attachment range claims' means, 
                with respect to an individual, the claims for such 
                individual that exceed a dollar amount specified by the 
                Secretary for a year, but do not exceed a ceiling 
                dollar amount specified by the Secretary for such year, 
                under subparagraph (B).
                    ``(B) Specifications.--For purposes of subparagraph 
                (A) and section 1353(b)(3), the Secretary shall 
                determine the dollar amounts and the percentage to be 
                specified under this subparagraph for a year in a 
                manner to ensure that the total amount of expenditures 
                under this part for such year is estimated to equal the 
                total amount appropriated for such year under 
                subsection (a) if such expenditures were used solely 
                for the purpose described in paragraph (1) of section 
                1352(a) for attachment range claims at the dollar 
                amounts and percentage so specified for such year.
            ``(3) Availability.--Funds allocated to a State under this 
        subsection for a year shall remain available through the end of 
        the subsequent year.''.
    (b) Basic Health Program Funding Adjustments.--Section 1331 of the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18051) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(3) Provision of information on qualified health plan 
        premiums.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For plan years beginning on or 
                after January 1, 2023, the program described in 
                paragraph (1) shall provide that a State may not 
                establish a basic health program unless such State 
                furnishes to the Secretary, with respect to each 
                qualified health plan offered in such State during a 
                year that receives any reinsurance payment from funds 
                made available under part 6 for such year, the adjusted 
                premium amount (as defined in subparagraph (B)) for 
                each such plan and year.
                    ``(B) Adjusted premium amount defined.--For 
                purposes of subparagraph (A), the term `adjusted 
                premium amount' means, with respect to a qualified 
                health plan and a year, the monthly premium for such 
                plan and year that would have applied had such plan not 
                received any payments described in subparagraph (A) for 
                such year.''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)(3)(A)(ii), by adding at the end the 
        following new sentence: ``In making such determination, the 
        Secretary shall calculate the value of such premium tax credits 
        that would have been provided to such individuals enrolled 
        through a basic health program established by a State during a 
        year using the adjusted premium amounts (as defined in 
        subsection (a)(3)(B)) for qualified health plans offered in 
        such State during such year.''.

SEC. 137507. SPECIAL RULE FOR INDIVIDUALS RECEIVING UNEMPLOYMENT 
              COMPENSATION.

    (a) Extension.--Section 36B(g)(1) is amended by striking ``during 
2021,'' and inserting ``after December 31, 2020, and before January 1, 
2026,''.
    (b) Modification of Income Not Taken Into Account.--Section 
36B(g)(1)(B) is amended by striking ``133 percent'' and inserting ``150 
percent''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 36B(g) by inserting ``Through 
2025'' after ``2021'' in the heading thereof.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 137508. PERMANENT CREDIT FOR HEALTH INSURANCE COSTS.

    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (B) of section 35(b)(1) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``, and before 
January 1, 2022'' and inserting a period.
    (b) Increase in Credit Percentage.--Subsection (a) of section 35 of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``72.5 
percent'' and inserting ``80 percent''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Subsections (b) and (e)(1) of section 
7527 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 are each amended by striking 
``72.5 percent'' and inserting ``80 percent''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to coverage months beginning after December 31, 2021.

             PART 6--PATHWAY TO PRACTICE TRAINING PROGRAMS

SEC. 137601. ESTABLISHING RURAL AND UNDERSERVED PATHWAY TO PRACTICE 
              TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR POST-BACCALAUREATE STUDENTS AND 
              MEDICAL STUDENTS.

    (a) Program.--
            (1) In general.--Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1395 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new section:

``SEC. 1899C. RURAL AND UNDERSERVED PATHWAY TO PRACTICE TRAINING 
              PROGRAM FOR POST-BACCALAUREATE AND MEDICAL STUDENTS.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than October 1, 2023, the Secretary 
shall, subject to the succeeding provisions of this section, carry out 
the `Rural and Underserved Pathway to Practice Training Program for 
Post-Baccalaureate and Medical Students' (in this section, referred to 
as the `Program') under which the Secretary awards Pathway to Practice 
medical scholarship vouchers to qualifying students described in 
subsection (b) for the purpose of increasing the number of physicians 
practicing in rural and underserved communities.
    ``(b) Qualifying Student Described.--For purposes of this section, 
a qualifying student described in this subsection is an individual 
who--
            ``(1) attests he or she--
                    ``(A) is or will be a first-generation student of a 
                4-year college, graduate school, or professional 
                school;
                    ``(B) was a Pell Grant recipient; or
                    ``(C) lived in a medically underserved area, rural 
                area, or health professional shortage area for a period 
                of 4 or more years prior to attending an undergraduate 
                program;
            ``(2) has accepted enrollment in--
                    ``(A) a post-baccalaureate program that is not more 
                than 2 years and intends to enroll in a qualifying 
                medical school within 2 years after completion of such 
                program; or
                    ``(B) a qualifying medical school;
            ``(3) will practice medicine in a health professional 
        shortage area, medically underserved area, public hospital, 
        rural area, or as required under subsection (d)(5); and
            ``(4) submits an application and a signed copy of the 
        agreement described under subsection (c).
    ``(c) Applications.--
            ``(1) In general.--To be eligible to receive a Pathway to 
        Practice medical scholarship voucher under this section, a 
        qualifying student described in subsection (b) shall submit to 
        the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing such information as the Secretary may require.
            ``(2) Information to be included.--As a part of the 
        application described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        include a notice of the items which are required to be agreed 
        to under subsection (d)(4) for the purpose of notifying the 
        qualifying student of the terms of the Rural and Underserved 
        Pathway to Practice Training Program.
    ``(d) Pathway to Practice Medical Scholarship Voucher Details.--
            ``(1) Number.--On an annual basis, the Secretary may award 
        a Pathway to Practice medical scholarship voucher under the 
        Program to not more than 1,000 qualifying students described in 
        subsection (b).
            ``(2) Prioritization criteria.--In determining whether to 
        award a Pathway to Practice medical scholarship voucher under 
        the Program to qualifying students described in subsection (b), 
        the Secretary shall prioritize applications from any such 
        student who attests that he or she--
                    ``(A) was a participant in the Health Resources and 
                Services Administration Health Careers Opportunity 
                Program or an Area Health Education Center scholar;
                    ``(B) is a disadvantaged student (as defined by the 
                National Health Service Corps of the Health Resources & 
                Services Administration of the Department of Health and 
                Human Services); or
                    ``(C) attended a historically black college or 
                other minority serving institution (as defined in 
                section 1067q of title 20, United States Code).
            ``(3) Duration.--Each Pathway to Practice medical 
        scholarship voucher awarded to a qualifying student pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall be so awarded to such a student on an 
        annual basis for each year of enrollment in a post-
        baccalaureate program and a qualifying medical school (as 
        appropriate).
            ``(4) Amount.--Subject to paragraph (5), each Pathway to 
        Practice medical scholarship voucher awarded under the Program 
        shall include amounts for--
                    ``(A) tuition;
                    ``(B) academic fees (as determined by the 
                qualifying medical school);
                    ``(C) required textbooks and equipment;
                    ``(D) a monthly stipend equal to the amount 
                provided for individuals under the health professions 
                scholarship and financial assistance program described 
                in section 2121(c) of title 10, United States Code; and
                    ``(E) any other educational expenses normally 
                incurred by students at the post-baccalaureate program 
                or qualifying medical school (as appropriate).
            ``(5) Required agreement.--No amounts under paragraph (4) 
        may be provided a qualifying student awarded a Pathway to 
        Practice medical scholarship voucher under the Program, unless 
        the qualifying student submits to the Secretary an agreement 
        to--
                    ``(A) complete a post-baccalaureate program that is 
                not more than 2 years (if applicable pursuant to the 
                option under subsection (b)(2)(A));
                    ``(B) graduate from a qualifying medical school;
                    ``(C) complete a residency program in an approved 
                residency training program (as defined in section 
                1886(h)(5)(A));
                    ``(D) complete an initial residency period or the 
                period of board eligibility;
                    ``(E) practice medicine for at least the number of 
                years of the Pathway to Practice medical scholarship 
                voucher awarded under paragraph (2) after a residency 
                program in a health professional shortage area, a 
                medically underserved area, a public hospital, or a 
                rural area, and during such period annually submit 
                documentation with respect to whether the qualifying 
                student practices medicine in such an area and where;
                    ``(F) for the purpose of determining compliance 
                with subparagraph (E), not later than 180 days after 
                the date on which qualifying student completes a 
                residency program, provide to the Secretary information 
                with respect to where the qualifying student is 
                practicing medicine following the period described in 
                such subparagraph;
                    ``(G) except in the case of a waiver for hardship 
                pursuant to section 1892(f)(3), be liable to the United 
                States pursuant to section 1892 for any amounts 
                received under this Program that is determined a past-
                due obligation under subsection (b)(3) of such section 
                in the case qualifying student fails to complete all of 
                the requirements of this agreement under this 
                subsection; and
                    ``(H) for the purpose of determining the amount of 
                Pathway to Practice medical scholarship vouchers paid 
                or incurred by a qualifying medical school or any 
                provider of a post-baccalaureate program referred to in 
                subsection (b)(2)(A) for the costs of tuition under 
                paragraph (4)(A), consent to any personally identifying 
                information being shared with the Secretary of the 
                Treasury.
            ``(6) Responsibilities of participating educational 
        institutions.--Each annual award of an amount of Pathway to 
        Practice medical scholarship voucher under paragraph (2) shall 
        be made with respect to a specific qualifying medical school or 
        post-baccalaureate program that is not more than 2 years and 
        such school or program shall (as a condition of, and prior to, 
        such award being made with respect to such school or program)--
                    ``(A) submit to the Secretary such information as 
                the Secretary may require to determine the amount of 
                such award on the basis of the costs of the costs of 
                the items specified under paragraph (4) (except for 
                subparagraph (D)) with respect to such school or 
                program, and
                    ``(B) enter into an agreement with the Secretary 
                under which such school or provider will verify (in 
                such manner as the Secretary may provide) that amounts 
                paid by such school or provider to the qualifying 
                student are used for such costs.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Health professional shortage area.--The team `health 
        professional shortage area' has the meaning given such term in 
        subparagraphs (A) or (B) of section 332(a)(1) of the Public 
        Health Service Act.
            ``(2) Initial residency period.--The term `initial 
        residency period' has the meaning given such term in section 
        1886(h)(5)(F).
            ``(3) Medically underserved area.--The term `medically 
        underserved area' means an area designated pursuant to section 
        330(b)(3)(A) of the Public Health Service Act.
            ``(4) Pell grant recipient.--The term `Pell Grant 
        recipient' has the meaning given such term in section 322(3) of 
        the Higher Education Act of 1965.
            ``(5) Period of board eligibility.--The term `period of 
        board eligibility' has the meaning given such term in section 
        1886(h)(5)(G).
            ``(6) Qualifying medical school.--The term `qualifying 
        medical school' means a school of medicine accredited by the 
        Liaison Committee on Medical Education of the American Medical 
        Association and the Association of American Medical Colleges 
        (or approved by such Committee as meeting the standards 
        necessary for such accreditation) or a school of osteopathy 
        accredited by the American Osteopathic Association, or approved 
        by such Association as meeting the standards necessary for such 
        accreditation which--
                    ``(A) for each academic year, enrolls at least 10 
                qualifying students who are in enrolled in such a 
                school;
                    ``(B) requires qualifying students to enroll in 
                didactic coursework and clinical experience applicable 
                to practicing medicine in health professional shortage 
                areas, medically underserved areas, or rural areas, 
                including--
                            ``(i) clinical rotations in such areas in 
                        applicable specialties (as applicable and as 
                        available);
                            ``(ii) coursework or training experiences 
                        focused on medical issues prevalent in such 
                        areas and cultural and structural competency; 
                        and
                    ``(C) is located in a State (as defined in section 
                210(h)).
            ``(7) Rural area.--The term `rural area' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 1886(d)(2)(D).
    ``(f) Penalty for False Information.--Any person who knowingly and 
willfully obtains by fraud, false statement, or forgery, or fails to 
refund any funds, assets, or property provided under this section or 
attempts to so obtain by fraud, false statement or forgery, or fail to 
refund any funds, assets, or property, received pursuant to this 
section shall be fined not more than $20,000 or imprisoned for not more 
than 5 years, or both.''.
            (2) Agreements.--Section 1892 of the Social Security Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1395ccc) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)(A)--
                            (i) by striking ``, or the'' and inserting 
                        ``, the''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or the Rural and 
                        Underserved Pathway to Practice Training 
                        Program for Post- Baccalaureate and Medical 
                        Students under section 1899C'' before ``, owes 
                        a past-due obligation'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking at the 
                        end ``or'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                            (iii) by adding the end the following new 
                        paragraph:
            ``(3) subject to subsection (f), owed by an individual to 
        the United States by breach of an agreement under section 
        1899C(c) and which payment has not been paid by the individual 
        for any amounts received under the Rural and Underserved 
        Pathway to Practice Training Program for Post-Baccalaureate and 
        Medical Students (and accrued interest determined in accordance 
        with subsection (f)(4)) in the case such individual fails to 
        complete the requirements of such agreement.''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(f) Authorities With Respect to the Collection Under the Pathway 
to Practice Training Program.--The Secretary--
            ``(1) shall require payment to the United States for any 
        amount of damages that the United States is entitled to recover 
        under subsection (b)(3), within the 5-year period beginning on 
        the date an eligible individual fails to complete the 
        requirements of such agreement under section 1899C(d)(5) (or 
        such longer period beginning on such date as specified by the 
        Secretary), and any such amounts not paid within such period 
        shall be subject to collection through deductions in Medicare 
        payments pursuant to subsection (e);
            ``(2) may allow payments described in paragraph (1) to be 
        paid in installments over such 5-year period, which shall 
        accrue interest in an amount determined pursuant to paragraph 
        (5);
            ``(3) may waive the requirement for an individual to pay a 
        past-due obligation under subsection (b)(3) in the case of 
        hardship (as determined by the Secretary);
            ``(4) may not disclose any past-due obligation under 
        subsection (b)(3) that is owed to the United States to any 
        credit reporting agency that the United States entitled to be 
        recovered the United States under this section; and
            ``(5) shall make a final determination of whether the 
        amount of payment under section 1899C made to a qualifying 
        student (as described in subsection (b) of such section) was in 
        excess of or less than the amount of payment that is due, and 
        payment of such excess or deficit is not made (or effected by 
        offset) within 90 days of the date of the determination, and 
        interest shall accrue on the balance of such excess or deficit 
        not paid or offset (to the extent that the balance is owed by 
        or owing to the provider) at a rate determined in accordance 
        with the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury 
        applicable to charges for late payments.''.

SEC. 137602. FUNDING FOR THE RURAL AND UNDERSERVED PATHWAY TO PRACTICE 
              TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR POST-BACCALAUREATE STUDENTS AND 
              MEDICAL STUDENTS.

    (a) In General.--Subpart C of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended by the preceding 
provisions of this Act, is amended by inserting after section 36F the 
following new section:

``SEC. 36G. PATHWAY TO PRACTICE MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIP VOUCHER CREDIT.

    ``(a) In General.--In the case of a qualified educational 
institution, there shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed 
by this subtitle for any taxable year an amount equal to the aggregate 
amount paid or incurred by such institution during such taxable year 
pursuant to any Pathway to Practice medical scholarship voucher awarded 
to a qualifying student with respect to such institution.
    ``(b) Determination of Amounts Paid Pursuant to Qualified 
Scholarship Vouchers, etc.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) an amount shall be treated as paid or incurred 
        pursuant to an annual award of a Pathway to Practice medical 
        scholarship voucher only if such amount is paid or incurred in 
        reimbursement, or anticipation of, an expense described in 
        subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (4) of section 
        1899C(d) of the Social Security Act and is subject to 
        verification in such manner as the Secretary of Health and 
        Human Services may provide under paragraph (6) of such section, 
        and
            ``(2) in the case of any amount credited by a qualified 
        educational institution against a liability owed by the 
        qualifying student to such institution, such amount shall be 
        treated as paid by such institution to such student as of the 
        date that such liability would otherwise be due.
    ``(c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Qualified educational institution.--The term 
        `qualified educational institution' means, with respect to any 
        annual award of a Pathway to Practice medical scholarship 
        voucher--
                    ``(A) any qualifying medical school (as defined in 
                subsection (e)(6) of section 1899C of the Social 
                Security Act), and
                    ``(B) any provider of a post-baccalaureate program 
                referred to in subsection (b)(2)(A) of such section,
        which meets the requirements of subsection (d)(6) of such 
        section.
            ``(2) Qualifying student.--The term `qualifying student' 
        means any student to whom the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services has made an annual award of a Pathway to Practice 
        medical scholarship voucher under section 1899C of the Social 
        Security Act.
            ``(3) Annual award of a pathway to practice medical 
        scholarship voucher.--The term `annual award of a Pathway to 
        Practice medical scholarship voucher' means the annual award of 
        a Pathway to Practice medical scholarship voucher referred to 
        in section 1899C(d)(3) of the Social Security Act.
    ``(d) Coordination of Academic and Taxable Years.--The credit 
allowed under subsection (a) with respect to any Pathway to Practice 
medical scholarship voucher shall not exceed the amount of such voucher 
which is for expenses described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of 
section 1899C(d)(4) of the Social Security Act, reduced by any amount 
of such voucher with respect to which credit was allowed under this 
section for any prior taxable year.
    ``(e) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such regulations or 
other guidance as are necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
purposes of this section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 6211(b)(4)(A), as amended by the preceding 
        provisions of this Act, is amended by inserting ``36G,'' after 
        ``36F,''.
            (2) Paragraph (2) of section 1324(b) of title 31, United 
        States Code, as amended by the preceding provisions of this 
        Act, is amended by inserting ``36G,'' after ``36F,''.
            (3) The table of sections for subpart C of part IV of 
        subchapter A of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 
        and amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended 
        by inserting after the item relating to section 36F the 
        following new item:

``Sec. 36G. Pathway to Practice medical scholarship voucher credit.''.
    (c) Information Sharing.--The Secretary of Health and Human 
Services shall annually provide the Secretary of the Treasury such 
information regarding the program under section 1899C of the Social 
Security Act as the Secretary of the Treasury may require to administer 
the tax credits determined under section 36G of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986, including information to identify qualifying students and 
the qualified educational institutions at which such students are 
enrolled and the amount of the annual award of the Pathway to Practice 
medical scholarship voucher awarded to each such student with respect 
to such institution. Terms used in this subparagraph shall have the 
same meaning as when used is such section 36G.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years ending after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 137603. ESTABLISHING RURAL AND UNDERSERVED PATHWAY TO PRACTICE 
              TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR MEDICAL RESIDENTS.

    Section 1886 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)(5)(B)(v), by inserting 
        ``(h)(4)(H)(vii),'' after ``The provisions of subsections 
        (h)(4)(H)(vi),''; and
            (2) in subsection (h)(4)(H), by adding at the end the 
        following new clause:
                            ``(vii) Increase in full-time equivalent 
                        limitation for hospitals implementing pathway 
                        training programs.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--For cost 
                                reporting periods beginning on or after 
                                October 1, 2026, during which a 
                                resident trains in an applicable 
                                hospital or hospitals (as defined in 
                                subclause (II) in an approved medical 
                                residency training program), the 
                                Secretary shall, after any adjustment 
                                made under any preceding provision of 
                                this paragraph or under any of 
                                paragraphs (7) through (9), subject to 
                                subclause (III), increase the 
                                limitation under subparagraph (F) for 
                                such cost reporting period by the 
                                number of full-time equivalent 
                                residents so trained under such program 
                                during such period (in this clause, 
                                referred to as the `Rural and 
                                Underserved Pathway to Practice 
                                Training Programs for Medical 
                                Residents' or `Program').
                                    ``(II) Applicable hospital or 
                                hospitals defined.--For purposes of 
                                this clause, the term `applicable 
                                hospital or hospitals' means any 
                                hospital that has been recognized by 
                                the Accreditation Council for Graduate 
                                Medical Education as meeting at least 
                                the following requirements for their 
                                approved medical residency training 
                                programs:
                                            ``(aa) The programs provide 
                                        mentorships for residents.
                                            ``(bb) The programs include 
                                        cultural and structural 
                                        competency as part of the 
                                        training of residents under the 
                                        programs.
                                            ``(cc) The programs have a 
                                        demonstrated record of training 
                                        medical residents in medically 
                                        underserved areas, rural areas, 
                                        or health professional shortage 
                                        areas.
                                            ``(dd) The hospital agrees 
                                        to promote community-based 
                                        training of residents under 
                                        their programs, as appropriate.
                                    ``(III) Annual limitation for 
                                number of residents in program.--The 
                                Secretary shall ensure that, during any 
                                1-year period and across all approved 
                                medical residency training programs 
                                described in subclause (I), not more 
                                than 1,000 full-time equivalent 
                                residents are trained each year.
                                    ``(IV) Other definitions.--
                                            ``(aa) Health professional 
                                        shortage area.--The team 
                                        `health professional shortage 
                                        area' has the meaning given 
                                        such term in subparagraphs (A) 
                                        or (B) of section 332(a)(1) of 
                                        the Public Health Service Act.
                                            ``(bb) Medical underserved 
                                        area.--The term `medically 
                                        underserved area' means an area 
                                        designated pursuant to section 
                                        330(b)(3)(A) of the Public 
                                        Health Service Act.
                                            ``(cc) Qualifying medical 
                                        school.--The term `qualifying 
                                        medical school' has the meaning 
                                        given such term in section 
                                        1899C(e)(6).
                                            ``(dd) Qualifying medical 
                                        student.--The term `qualifying 
                                        medical student' has the 
                                        meaning given such term in 
                                        section 1899C(b).
                                            ``(ee) Rural area.--The 
                                        term `rural area' has the 
                                        meaning given such term in 
                                        section 1886(d)(2)(D).''.

SEC. 137604. ADMINISTRATIVE FUNDING OF THE RURAL AND UNDERSERVED 
              PATHWAY TO PRACTICE TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR POST-
              BACCALAUREATE STUDENTS, MEDICAL STUDENTS, AND MEDICAL 
              RESIDENTS.

    The Secretary shall provide for the transfer of $6,000,000 from the 
Hospital Insurance Trust Fund established under section 1817 of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395i) and the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund under section 1841 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395t), in addition to amounts otherwise available to remain available 
until expended, to carry out the administration of the Rural and 
Underserved Pathway to Practice Training Program for Post-Baccalaureate 
and Medical Students under section 1899C of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395mmm) and the Rural and Underserved Pathway to Practice Training 
Programs for Medical Residents under section 1886(h)(4)(H)(vii) of such 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww(h)(4)(H)(vii)).

                        PART 7--HIGHER EDUCATION

SEC. 137701. CREDIT FOR PUBLIC UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) In General.--Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, 
as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 45AA. PUBLIC UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE CREDIT.

    ``(a) Allowance of Credit.--For purposes of section 38, the public 
university research infrastructure credit determined under this section 
for a taxable year is an amount equal to 40 percent of the qualified 
cash contributions made by a taxpayer during such taxable year.
    ``(b) Qualified Cash Contribution.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Defined.--For purposes of subsection (a), the 
                qualified cash contribution for any taxable year is the 
                aggregate amount contributed in cash by a taxpayer 
                during such taxable year to a certified educational 
                institution in connection with a qualifying project 
                that, but for this section, would be treated as a 
                charitable contribution for purposes of section 170(c).
                    ``(B) Qualified cash contributions taken into 
                account for purposes of charitable contribution 
                limitations.--Any qualified cash contributions made by 
                a taxpayer under this section shall be taken into 
                account for purposes of determining the percentage 
                limitations under section 170(b).
            ``(2) Designation required.--A contribution shall only be 
        treated as a qualified cash contribution to the extent that it 
        is designated as such by a certified educational institution 
        under subsection (d).
    ``(c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Qualifying project.--The term `qualifying project' 
        means a project to purchase, construct, or improve research 
        infrastructure property.
            ``(2) Research infrastructure property.--The term `research 
        infrastructure property' means any portion of a property, 
        building, or structure of an eligible educational institution, 
        or any land associated with such property, building, or 
        structure, that is used for research.
            ``(3) Eligible educational institution.--The term `eligible 
        educational institution' means--
                    ``(A) an institution of higher education (as such 
                term is defined in section 101 or 102(c) of the Higher 
                Education Act of 1965) that is a college or university 
                described in section 511(a)(2)(B), or
                    ``(B) an organization described in section 
                170(b)(1)(A)(iv) or section 509(a)(3) to which 
                authority has been delegated by an institution 
                described in subparagraph (A) for purposes of applying 
                for or administering credit amounts on behalf of such 
                institution.
            ``(4) Certified educational institution.--The term 
        `certified educational institution' means an eligible 
        educational institution which has been allocated a credit 
        amount for a qualifying project and--
                    ``(A) has received a certification for such project 
                under subsection (d)(2), and
                    ``(B) designates credit amounts to taxpayers for 
                qualifying cash contributions toward such project under 
                subsection (d)(4).
    ``(d) Qualifying University Research Infrastructure Program.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after 
                the date of the enactment of this section, the 
                Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary of 
                Education, shall establish a program to--
                            ``(i) certify and allocate credit amounts 
                        for qualifying projects to eligible educational 
                        institutions, and
                            ``(ii) allow certified educational 
                        institutions to designate cash contributions 
                        for qualifying projects of such certified 
                        educational institutions as qualified cash 
                        contributions.
                    ``(B) Limitations.--
                            ``(i) Allocation limitation per 
                        institution.--The credit amounts allocated to a 
                        certified educational institution under 
                        subparagraph (A)(i) for all projects shall not 
                        exceed $50,000,000 per calendar year.
                            ``(ii) Overall allocation limitation.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--The total amount 
                                of qualifying project credit amounts 
                                that may be allocated under 
                                subparagraph (A)(i) shall not exceed--
                                            ``(aa) $500,000,000 for 
                                        each of calendar years 2022, 
                                        2023, 2024, 2025, and 2026, and
                                            ``(bb) $0 for each 
                                        subsequent year.
                                    ``(II) Rollover of unallocated 
                                credit amounts.--Any credit amounts 
                                described in subclause (I) that are 
                                unallocated during a calendar year 
                                shall be carried to the succeeding 
                                calendar year and added to the 
                                limitation allowable under such 
                                subclause for such succeeding calendar 
                                year.
                            ``(iii) Designation limitation.--The 
                        aggregate amount of cash contributions which 
                        are designated by a certified educational 
                        institution as qualifying cash contributions 
                        with respect to any qualifying project shall 
                        not exceed 250 percent of the credit amount 
                        allocated to such certified educational 
                        institution for a qualifying project under 
                        subparagraph (A)(i).
            ``(2) Certification application.--Each eligible educational 
        institution which applies for certification of a project under 
        this paragraph shall submit an application in such time, form, 
        and manner as the Secretary may require.
            ``(3) Selection criteria for allocations to eligible 
        educational institutions.--The Secretary, after consultation 
        with the Secretary of Education, shall select applications from 
        eligible educational institutions--
                    ``(A) based on the extent of the expected expansion 
                of an eligible educational institution's targeted 
                research within disciplines in science, mathematics, 
                engineering, and technology, and
                    ``(B) in a manner that ensures consideration is 
                given to eligible educational institutions with full-
                time student populations of less than 12,000.
            ``(4) Designation of qualified cash contributions to 
        taxpayers.--The Secretary, after consultation with the 
        Secretary of Education, shall establish a process by which 
        certified educational institutions shall designate cash 
        contributions to such institutions as qualified cash 
        contributions.
            ``(5) Disclosure of allocations and designations.--
                    ``(A) Allocations.--The Secretary shall, upon 
                allocating credit amounts to an applicant under this 
                subsection, publicly disclose the identity of the 
                applicant and the credit amount allocated to such 
                applicant.
                    ``(B) Designations.--Each certified educational 
                institution shall, upon designating contributions of a 
                taxpayer as qualified cash contributions under this 
                subsection, publicly disclose the identity of the 
                taxpayer and the amount of contributions designated in 
                such time, form, and manner as the Secretary may 
                require.
    ``(e) Regulations and Guidance.--The Secretary, after consultation 
with the Secretary of Education when applicable, shall prescribe such 
regulations and guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry 
out the purposes of this section, including regulations for--
            ``(1) prevention of abuse,
            ``(2) establishment of reporting requirements,
            ``(3) establishment of selection criteria for applications, 
        and
            ``(4) disclosure of allocations.
    ``(f) Penalty for Noncompliance.--
            ``(1) In general.--If at any time during the 5-year period 
        beginning on the date of the allocation of credit amounts to a 
        certified educational institution under subsection (d)(1)(A)(i) 
        there is a noncompliance event with respect to such credit 
        amounts, then the following rules shall apply:
                    ``(A) General rule.--Any cash contribution 
                designated as a qualifying cash contribution with 
                respect to a qualifying project for which such credit 
                amounts were allocated under subsection (d)(1)(A)(ii) 
                shall be treated as unrelated business taxable income 
                (as defined in section 512) of such certified 
                educational institution.
                    ``(B) Rule for unused credit amounts.--In the case 
                of unused credit amounts described under paragraph 
                (2)(A) and identified pursuant to subsection (g), the 
                Secretary shall reallocate any portion of such unused 
                credit amounts to certified educational institutions in 
                lieu of imposing the general rule under subparagraph 
                (A).
            ``(2) Noncompliance event.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `noncompliance event' means, with respect 
        to a credit amount allocated to a certified educational 
        institution--
                    ``(A) cash contributions equaling the amount of 
                such credit amount are not designated as qualifying 
                cash contributions within 2 years after December 31 of 
                the year such credit amount is allocated,
                    ``(B) a qualifying project with respect to which 
                such credit amount was allocated is not placed in 
                service within either--
                            ``(i) 4 years after December 31 of the year 
                        such credit amount is allocated, or
                            ``(ii) a period of time that the Secretary 
                        determines is appropriate, or
                    ``(C) the research infrastructure property placed 
                in service as part of a qualifying project with respect 
                to which such credit amount was allocated ceases to be 
                used for research within five years after such property 
                is placed in service.
    ``(g) Review and Reallocation of Credit Amounts.--
            ``(1) Review.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Secretary shall review the 
        credit amounts allocated under this section as of such date.
            ``(2) Reallocation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may reallocate 
                credit amounts allocated under this section if the 
                Secretary determines, as of the date of the review in 
                paragraph (1), that such credit amounts are subject to 
                a noncompliance event.
                    ``(B) Additional program.--If the Secretary 
                determines that credits under this section are 
                available for reallocation pursuant to the requirements 
                set forth in subparagraph (A), the Secretary is 
                authorized to conduct an additional program for 
                applications for certification.
                    ``(C) Deadline for reallocation.--The Secretary 
                shall not certify any project, or reallocate any credit 
                amount, pursuant to this paragraph after December 31, 
                2031.
    ``(h) Denial of Double Benefit.--No credit or deduction shall be 
allowed under any other provision of this chapter for any qualified 
cash contribution for which a credit is allowed under this section.
    ``(i) Rule for Trusts and Estates.--For purposes of this section, 
rules similar to the rules of subsection (d) of section 52 shall apply.
    ``(j) Termination.--This section shall not apply to qualified cash 
contributions made after December 31, 2033.''.
    (b) Credit Made Part of General Business Credit.--Subsection (b) of 
section 38, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is 
amended by striking ``plus'' at the end of paragraph (38), by striking 
the period at the end of paragraph (39) and inserting ``, plus'', and 
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(43) the public university research infrastructure credit 
        determined under section 45AA.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subpart D of 
part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, as amended by the preceding 
provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``Sec. 45AA. Public university research infrastructure credit.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to qualified cash contributions made after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 137702. MODIFICATION OF EXCISE TAX ON INVESTMENT INCOME OF PRIVATE 
              COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES.

    (a) Phaseout of Investment Income Excise Tax for Private Colleges 
and Universities Providing Sufficient Grants and Scholarships.--Section 
4968 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Phaseout for Institutions Providing Qualified Aid.--
            ``(1) In general.--The amount of tax imposed by subsection 
        (a) (determined without regard to this subsection) shall be 
        reduced (but not below zero) by the amount which bears the same 
        ratio to such amount of tax (as so determined) as--
                    ``(A) the excess (if any) of--
                            ``(i) the aggregate amount of qualified aid 
                        awards provided by the institution to its 
                        first-time, full-time undergraduate students 
                        for academic periods beginning during the 
                        taxable year, over
                            ``(ii) an amount equal to 20 percent of the 
                        aggregate undergraduate tuition and fees 
                        received by the institution from first-time, 
                        full-time undergraduate students for such 
                        academic periods, bears to
                    ``(B) an amount equal to 13 percent of such 
                aggregate undergraduate tuition and fees so received.
            ``(2) Institution must meet reporting requirement.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to 
                an applicable educational institution for a taxable 
                year unless such institution furnishes to the 
                Secretary, and makes widely available, a statement 
                detailing the average aggregate amount of Federal 
                student loans received by a student for attendance at 
                the institution, averaged among each of the following 
                groups of first-time, full-time undergraduate students 
                who during the taxable year completed a course of study 
                for which the institution awarded a baccalaureate 
                degree:
                            ``(i) All such students.
                            ``(ii) The students who have been awarded a 
                        Federal Pell Grant under subpart 1 of part A of 
                        title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
                        for attendance at the institution.
                            ``(iii) The students who received work-
                        study assistance under part C of title IV of 
                        such Act for attendance at such institution.
                            ``(iv) The students who were provided such 
                        Federal student loans.
                    ``(B) Form and manner for report.--Such statement 
                shall be furnished at such time and in such form and 
                manner, and made widely available, under such 
                regulations or guidance as the Secretary may prescribe.
                    ``(C) Federal student loans.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, the term `Federal student loans' means a 
                loan made under part D of title IV of the Higher 
                Education Act of 1965, except such term does not 
                include a Federal Direct PLUS Loan made on behalf of a 
                dependent student.
            ``(3) Other definitions.--For purposes of this subsection--
                    ``(A) First-time, full-time undergraduate 
                student.--The term `first-time, full-time undergraduate 
                student' shall have the same meaning as when used in 
                section 132 of the Higher Education Act of 1965.
                    ``(B) Qualified aid awards.--The term `qualified 
                aid awards' means, with respect to any applicable 
                educational institution, grants and scholarships to the 
                extent used for undergraduate tuition and fees.
                    ``(C) Undergraduate tuition and fees.--The term 
                `undergraduate tuition and fees' means, with respect to 
                any institution, the tuition and fees required for the 
                enrollment or attendance of a student as an 
                undergraduate student at the institution.''.
    (b) Inflation Adjustment to Per Student Asset Threshold.--Section 
4968(b) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Inflation adjustment.--In the case of any taxable 
        year beginning after 2022, the dollar amount in paragraph 
        (1)(D) shall be increased by an amount equal to--
                    ``(A) such dollar amount, multiplied by
                    ``(B) the cost-of-living adjustment determined 
                under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year in which 
                the taxable year begins, determined by substituting 
                `calendar year 2021' for `calendar year 2016' in 
                subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.
        If any increase determined under this paragraph is not a 
        multiple of $1,000, such increase shall be rounded to the 
        nearest multiple of $1,000.''.
    (c) Clarification of 500 Student Threshold.--Section 4968(b)(1)(A) 
is amended by inserting ``below the graduate level'' after ``500 
tuition-paying students''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 137703. TREATMENT OF FEDERAL PELL GRANTS FOR INCOME TAX PURPOSES.

    (a) Exclusion From Gross Income.--Section 117(b)(1) is amended by 
striking ``received by an individual'' and all that follows and 
inserting ``received by an individual--
                    ``(A) as a scholarship or fellowship grant to the 
                extent the individual establishes that, in accordance 
                with the conditions of the grant, such amount was used 
                for qualified tuition and related expenses, or
                    ``(B) as a Federal Pell Grant under section 401 of 
                the Higher Education Act of 1965.''.
    (b) Treatment for Purposes of American Opportunity Tax Credit and 
Lifetime Learning Credit.--Section 25A(g)(2) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``described in 
        section 117(b)(1)(A)'' after ``a qualified scholarship'', and
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``or Federal Pell 
        Grant under section 401 of the Higher Education Act of 1965'' 
        after ``within the meaning of section 102(a)''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 137704. REPEAL OF DENIAL OF AMERICAN OPPORTUNITY TAX CREDIT ON 
              BASIS OF FELONY DRUG CONVICTION.

    (a) In General.--Section 25A(b)(2) is amended by striking 
subparagraph (D).
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.
