---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Part 3 - Supporting Caregivers

## SEC. 137301. PAYROLL TAX CREDIT FOR CHILD CARE WORKERS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter D of chapter 21 is amended by adding at 
the end the following:

``SEC. 3135. PAYROLL CREDIT FOR CERTAIN WAGES PAID TO CHILD CARE 
              WORKERS.

    ``(a) In General.--In the case of an eligible child care employer, 
there shall be allowed as a credit against applicable employment taxes 
for each calendar quarter an amount equal to 50 percent of the 
qualified child care wages paid with respect to each eligible employee 
of such employer for such calendar quarter.
    ``(b) Limitations and Refundability.--
            ``(1) Limitation on wages taken into account.--The amount 
        of qualified child care wages with respect to any eligible 
        employee which may be taken into account under subsection (a) 
        by the eligible child care employer for any calendar quarter 
        shall not exceed $2,500.
            ``(2) Credit limited to certain employment taxes.--The 
        credit allowed by subsection (a) with respect to any calendar 
        quarter shall not exceed the applicable employment taxes 
        (reduced by any credits allowed under sections 3131, 3132, 
        3134, and 6432) on the wages paid with respect to the 
        employment of all the employees of the eligible child care 
        employer for such calendar quarter.
            ``(3) Refundability of excess credit.--
                    ``(A) Credit is refundable.--If the amount of the 
                credit under subsection (a) exceeds the limitation of 
                paragraph (2) for any calendar quarter, such excess 
                shall be treated as an overpayment that shall be 
                refunded under sections 6402(a) and 6413(b).
                    ``(B) Advancing credit.--In anticipation of the 
                credit, including the refundable portion under 
                subparagraph (A), the credit shall be advanced, 
                according to forms and instructions provided by the 
                Secretary, up to an amount calculated under subsection 
                (a), subject to the limits under paragraph (1), all 
                calculated through the end of the most recent payroll 
                period in the quarter.
    ``(c) Eligible Child Care Employer.--For purposes of this section, 
the term `eligible child care employer' means any employer which 
operates one or more qualified child care facilities.
    ``(d) Qualified Child Care Facility.--For purposes of this section, 
the term `qualified child care facility' means any facility which is 
certified as an HHS Participating Child Care Provider by the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services under section 418A(c) of the Social 
Security Act.
    ``(e) Eligible Employee.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`eligible employee' means, with respect to any eligible child care 
employer for any calendar quarter, any employee of such employer if--
            ``(1) the aggregate wages paid to such employee for such 
        quarter do not exceed 25 percent of the dollar amount in effect 
        for such quarter under section 414(q)(1)(B)(i) (relating to 
        highly compensated employees), and
            ``(2) the aggregate wages paid to such employee for the 1-
        year period ending with the close of such quarter do not exceed 
        100 percent of such dollar amount.
    ``(f) Qualified Child Care Wages.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `qualified child care wages' 
        means, with respect to any eligible employee for any calendar 
        quarter, so much of the child care wages paid by the eligible 
        child care employer to such employee during such quarter as are 
        paid at a rate in excess of the applicable minimum rate. Such 
        term shall not include any wages paid by an eligible child care 
        employer during any period during which the certification 
        described in subsection (d) is not in effect.
            ``(2) Applicable minimum rate.--The term `applicable 
        minimum rate' means, with respect to wages paid to any eligible 
        employee, the rate of basic pay which is payable for GS-3, step 
        1 of the General Schedule under subchapter III of chapter 53 of 
        title 5, United States Code (including any applicable locality-
        based comparability payment under section 5304 of such title, 
        or similar authority) at the time such wages are paid and 
        determined with respect to the locality in which the services 
        are provided.
            ``(3) Child care wages.--The term `child care wages' means 
        wages paid for the services of the employee to provide child 
        care at a qualified child care facility or to provide support 
        services for such a facility.
            ``(4) Exception.--The term `child care wages' shall not 
        include any wages taken into account under section 41, 45A, 
        45P, 45R, 51, 1396, 3131, 3132, 3134, or 6432.
    ``(g) Other Definitions and Special Rules.--For purposes of this 
section--
            ``(1) Applicable employment taxes.--The term `applicable 
        employment taxes' means the following:
                    ``(A) The taxes imposed under section 3111(b).
                    ``(B) So much of the taxes imposed under section 
                3221(a) as are attributable to the rate in effect under 
                section 3111(b).
            ``(2) Wages.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `wages' means wages (as 
                defined in section 3121(a)), determined without regard 
                to paragraphs (1) through (22) of section 3121(b)) and 
                compensation (as defined in section 3231(e), determined 
                without regard to the sentence in paragraph (1) thereof 
                which begins `Such term does not include 
                remuneration').
                    ``(B) Allowance for certain health plan expenses.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Such term shall include 
                        amounts paid by the eligible child care 
                        employer to provide and maintain a group health 
                        plan (as defined in section 5000(b)(1)), but 
                        only to the extent that such amounts are 
                        excluded from the gross income of employees by 
                        reason of section 106(a).
                            ``(ii) Allocation rules.--For purposes of 
                        this section, amounts treated as wages under 
                        clause (i) shall be treated as paid with 
                        respect to any eligible employee (and with 
                        respect to any period) to the extent that such 
                        amounts are properly allocable to such employee 
                        (and to such period) in such manner as the 
                        Secretary may prescribe. Except as otherwise 
                        provided by the Secretary, such allocation 
                        shall be treated as properly made if made on 
                        the basis of being pro rata among periods of 
                        coverage.
            ``(3) Other terms.--Any term used in this section which is 
        also used in this chapter or chapter 22 shall have the same 
        meaning as when used in such chapter.
            ``(4) Denial of double benefit.--For purposes of chapter 1, 
        the gross income of the employer, for the taxable year which 
        includes the last day of any calendar quarter with respect to 
        which a credit is allowed under this section, shall be 
        increased by the amount of such credit.
            ``(5) Election to not take certain wages into account.--
        This section shall not apply to so much of the qualified child 
        care wages paid by an eligible child care employer as such 
        employer elects (at such time and in such manner as the 
        Secretary may prescribe) to not take into account for purposes 
        of this section.
            ``(6) Certain governmental employers.--No credit shall be 
        allowed under this section to the Government of the United 
        States or to any agency or instrumentality thereof. The 
        preceding sentence shall not apply to any organization 
        described in section 501(c)(1) and exempt from tax under 
        section 501(a).
            ``(7) Coordination with certain programs.--
                    ``(A) In general.--This section shall not apply to 
                so much of the qualified child care wages paid by an 
                eligible child care employer as are taken into account 
                as payroll costs in connection with--
                            ``(i) a covered loan under section 7(a)(37) 
                        or 7A of the Small Business Act,
                            ``(ii) a grant under section 324 of the 
                        Economic Aid to Hard-Hit Small Businesses, Non-
                        Profits, and Venues Act, or
                            ``(iii) a restaurant revitalization grant 
                        under section 5003 of the American Rescue Plan 
                        Act of 2021.
                    ``(B) Application where ppp loans not forgiven.--
                The Secretary shall issue guidance providing that 
                payroll costs paid during the covered period shall not 
                fail to be treated as qualified child care wages under 
                this section by reason of subparagraph (A)(i) to the 
                extent that--
                            ``(i) a covered loan of the taxpayer under 
                        section 7(a)(37) of the Small Business Act is 
                        not forgiven by reason of a decision under 
                        section 7(a)(37)(J) of such Act, or
                            ``(ii) a covered loan of the taxpayer under 
                        section 7A of the Small Business Act is not 
                        forgiven by reason of a decision under section 
                        7A(g) of such Act.
                Terms used in the preceding sentence which are also 
                used in section 7A(g) or 7(a)(37)(J) of the Small 
                Business Act shall, when applied in connection with 
                either such section, have the same meaning as when used 
                in such section, respectively.
            ``(8) Aggregation rule.--All persons treated as a single 
        employer under subsection (a) or (b) of section 52, or 
        subsection (m) or (o) of section 414, shall be treated as one 
        employer for purposes of this section.
            ``(9) Third party payors.--Any credit allowed under this 
        section shall be treated as a credit described in section 
        3511(d)(2).
            ``(10) Inflation adjustment.--In the case of any taxable 
        year beginning after December 31, 2022, the $2,500 amount in 
        subsection (b)(1) shall be increased by an amount equal to--
                    ``(A) such dollar amount, multiplied by
                    ``(B) the cost-of-living adjustment determined 
                under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year in which 
                the taxable year begins, determined by substituting 
                `calendar year 2021' for `calendar year 2016' in 
                subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.
        If any amount as adjusted under the preceding sentence is not a 
        multiple of $100, such amount shall be rounded to the nearest 
        multiple of $100.
    ``(h) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations 
or other guidance as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this 
section, including--
            ``(1) regulations or other guidance to prevent the 
        avoidance of the purposes of the limitations under this 
        section,
            ``(2) regulations or other guidance to minimize compliance 
        and record-keeping burdens under this section,
            ``(3) regulations or other guidance providing for waiver of 
        penalties for failure to deposit amounts in anticipation of the 
        allowance of the credit allowed under this section,
            ``(4) regulations or other guidance for recapturing the 
        benefit of credits determined under this section in cases where 
        there is a subsequent adjustment to the credit determined under 
        subsection (a),
            ``(5) regulations or other guidance to permit the 
        advancement of the credit determined under subsection (a), and
            ``(6) regulations or other guidance for applying subsection 
        (f) with respect to eligible employees not paid at a single 
        rate of pay.''.
    (b) Refunds.--Paragraph (2) of section 1324(b) of title 31, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting ``3135,'' after ``3134,''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subchapter D of 
chapter 21 is amended by adding at the end the following:

``Sec. 3135. Payroll credit for certain wages paid to child care 
                            workers.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to calendar quarters beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 137302. CREDIT FOR CAREGIVER EXPENSES.

    (a) In General.--Subpart A of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 
is amended by inserting after section 25D the following new section:

``SEC. 25E. CREDIT FOR CAREGIVER EXPENSES.

    ``(a) Allowance of Credit.--In the case of an individual for whom 
there are 1 or more qualified care recipients, there shall be allowed 
as a credit against the tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable 
year an amount equal to 50 percent of the qualified expenses paid or 
incurred by such individual during the taxable year (and not 
compensated for by insurance or otherwise).
    ``(b) Qualified Care Recipient.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `qualified care recipient' 
        means, with respect to any taxable year, any individual who--
                    ``(A) is the spouse of the taxpayer, or any other 
                person who bears a relationship to the taxpayer 
                described in any of subparagraphs (A) through (H) of 
                section 152(d)(2),
                    ``(B) has been certified, before the due date for 
                filing the return of tax for the taxable year, by a 
                licensed health care practitioner (as defined in 
                section 7702B(c)(4)) as being an individual with long-
                term care needs (as defined in paragraph (3)) for a 
                period--
                            ``(i) which is expected to be at least 180 
                        consecutive days, and
                            ``(ii) a portion of which occurs within the 
                        taxable year, and
                    ``(C) resides in a personal residence and not an 
                institutional care facility.
            ``(2) Period for making certification.--Notwithstanding 
        paragraph (1)(B), a certification shall not be treated as valid 
        unless it is made within the 18-month period ending on such due 
        date (or such other period as the Secretary prescribes).
            ``(3) Individuals with long-term care needs.--For purposes 
        of this subsection, the term `individual with long-term care 
        needs' means any individual who meets the requirements of any 
        of the following subparagraphs:
                    ``(A) The individual is at least 6 years of age 
                and--
                            ``(i) is unable to perform (without 
                        substantial assistance from another individual) 
                        at least 2 activities of daily living (as 
                        defined in section 7702B(c)(2)(B)) due to a 
                        loss of functional capacity, or
                            ``(ii) requires substantial supervision to 
                        protect such individual from threats to health 
                        and safety due to severe cognitive impairment 
                        and is unable to perform, without reminding or 
                        cuing assistance, at least 1 activity of daily 
                        living (as so defined) or, to the extent 
                        provided in regulations prescribed by the 
                        Secretary (in consultation with the Secretary 
                        of Health and Human Services), is unable to 
                        engage in age appropriate activities.
                    ``(B) The individual is at least 2 but not 6 years 
                of age and is unable, due to a loss of functional 
                capacity, to perform (without substantial assistance 
                from another individual) at least 2 of the following 
                activities:
                            ``(i) Eating.
                            ``(ii) Transferring.
                            ``(iii) Mobility.
                    ``(C) The individual is under 2 years of age and 
                requires specific durable medical equipment by reason 
                of a severe health condition or requires a skilled 
                practitioner trained to address the individual's 
                condition to be available if the individual's parents 
                or guardians are absent.
            ``(4) Institutional care facility.--For purposes of 
        paragraph (1)(C), an institutional care facility (including two 
        or more places, establishments, or institutions owned by the 
        same legal entity) includes any congregate, protected living 
        residential arrangement that provides or coordinates personal 
        or health care services, including assistance with the 
        activities of daily living and social care, for two or more 
        adults who are aged, infirm, or disabled
    ``(c) Qualified Expenses.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `qualified expenses' means 
        expenses for goods, services, and supports described in 
        paragraph (2) which--
                    ``(A) assist a qualified care recipient with 
                accomplishing activities of daily living (as defined in 
                section 7702B(c)(2)(B)) and instrumental activities of 
                daily living (as defined in section 1915(k)(6)(F) of 
                the Social Security Act), and
                    ``(B) are provided solely for use by such qualified 
                care recipient.
            ``(2) Items described.--The goods, services, and supports 
        described in this paragraph are--
                    ``(A) human assistance, supervision, cuing, and 
                standby assistance,
                    ``(B) health maintenance tasks (such as medication 
                management),
                    ``(C) respite care,
                    ``(D) assistive technologies and devices (including 
                remote health monitoring),
                    ``(E) accessibility modifications of the qualified 
                care recipient's residence,
                    ``(F) counseling, support groups, or training 
                relating to caring for a qualified care recipient, and
                    ``(G) any other items which directly relate to the 
                health and safety of a qualified care recipient, as 
                determined by the Secretary after consultation with the 
                Secretary of Health and Human Services.
            ``(3) Dollar limitation.--The amount taken into account as 
        qualified expenses for any taxable year shall not exceed 
        $4,000.
            ``(4) Denial of double benefit.--Amounts taken into account 
        for purposes of section 21, 129, 213, or 223(f), or such other 
        circumstances as may be provided by the Secretary, shall not be 
        taken into account as qualified expenses.
            ``(5) Documentation requirement.--An expense shall not be 
        treated as a qualified expense unless the taxpayer 
        substantiates such expense under such regulations or guidance 
        as the Secretary shall provide.
    ``(d) Credit Phaseout.--The 50 percent rate under subsection (a) 
shall be reduced by 1 percentage point for every $2,500 or fraction 
thereof by which the taxpayer's adjusted gross income exceeds $75,000.
    ``(e) Special Rules.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Payments to related individuals.--Rules similar to 
        the rules of section 21(e)(6) shall apply.
            ``(2) Licensed health care practitioner.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The licensed health care 
                practitioner making the certification for purposes of 
                subsection (b)(1)(B)--
                            ``(i) shall not be related (within the 
                        meaning of section 51(i)(1)) to the taxpayer or 
                        the qualified care recipient, or have a 
                        conflict of interest (as determined under 
                        regulations provided by the Secretary) with 
                        respect to the taxpayer or the qualified care 
                        recipient,
                            ``(ii) shall be licensed and eligible under 
                        applicable State law to certify limitations in 
                        performing activities of daily living, and
                            ``(iii) shall be a participant in the 
                        Medicaid program, pursuant to sections 
                        1902(a)(77) and 1932(d)(6) of the Social 
                        Security Act, or the State Children's Health 
                        Insurance Program under section 2107(e)(1)(G) 
                        of such Act.
                    ``(B) Identification requirement.--
                            ``(i) In general.--No credit shall be 
                        allowed with respect to any qualified care 
                        recipient unless the taxpayer includes the name 
                        and specified provider identification number of 
                        such licensed health care practitioner on the 
                        return of tax for the taxable year.
                            ``(ii) Specified provider identification 
                        number.--The term `specified provider 
                        identification number' means a valid National 
                        Provider Identifier as authorized in section 
                        1173 of the Social Security Act.
            ``(3) Individual may not be claimed by more than 1 
        taxpayer.--An individual shall be treated as a qualified care 
        recipient with respect to only 1 taxpayer, as determined by the 
        Secretary, for any taxable year.
            ``(4) Identification requirement.--No credit shall be 
        allowed with respect to any qualified care recipient unless the 
        taxpayer includes the name and taxpayer identification number 
        of the qualified care recipient on the return of tax for the 
        taxable year.
    ``(f) Termination.--No credit shall be allowed under this section 
for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2025.''.
    (b) Math Error Authority.--Section 6213(g)(2), as amended by the 
preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by striking ``and'' at the 
end of subparagraph (T), by striking the period at the end of 
subparagraph (U) and inserting ``, and'', and by inserting after 
subparagraph (U) the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(V) an omission of a correct TIN required under 
                section 25E(e)(4) or a correct specified provider 
                identification number required under section 
                25E(e)(2)(B).''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subpart A of 
part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 25D the following new item:

``Sec. 25E. Credit for caregiver expenses.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.
