---
sidebar_position: 1
---

                  TITLE VI--COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY

                   Subtitle A--Immigration Provisions

SEC. 60001. LAWFUL PERMANENT RESIDENCE FOR CERTAIN ENTRANTS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 5 of title II of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
section 245A the following:

``SEC. 245B. ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS OF CERTAIN ENTRANTS.

    ``(a) In General.--Notwithstanding sections 201, 202, 203, and 
245(c), and subject to subsection (c), the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall adjust to the status of an alien lawfully admitted for 
permanent residence, an alien described in subsection (b), if such 
alien--
            ``(1) submits an application for adjustment of status in 
        accordance with procedures established by the Secretary;
            ``(2) in addition to any administrative processing fee, 
        pays a supplemental fee of $1,500; and
            ``(3) completes, to the satisfaction of the Secretary--
                    ``(A) security and law enforcement background 
                checks; and
                    ``(B) a medical examination consistent with section 
                221(d).
    ``(b) Aliens Described.--An alien described in this subsection is 
an alien who--
            ``(1)(A) has been continuously physically present in the 
        United States since January 1, 2021;
            ``(B) was 18 years of age or younger on the date on which 
        the alien entered the United States and has continuously 
        resided in the United States since such entry; and
            ``(C) demonstrates--
                    ``(i) a record of honorable service in the 
                Uniformed Services of the United States;
                    ``(ii) attainment of, or completion of not less 
                than 2 years, in good standing, of a program leading 
                to--
                            ``(I) a degree from a United States 
                        institution of higher education; or
                            ``(II) a postsecondary credential from an 
                        area career and technical education school in 
                        the United States;
                    ``(iii) during the 3-year period immediately 
                preceding the date on which the alien submits an 
                application for adjustment of status under this 
                section, a consistent record of earned income in the 
                United States; or
                    ``(iv)(I) enrollment in a program described in 
                clause (ii); and
                    ``(II) current employment or participation in an 
                internship, apprenticeship, or similar training 
                program;
            ``(2)(A) has been continuously physically present in the 
        United States since January 1, 2021; and
            ``(B) has demonstrated a consistent record of earned income 
        in the United States in an occupation described in the guidance 
        of the Department of Homeland Security entitled `Advisory 
        Memorandum on Ensuring Essential Critical Infrastructure 
        Workers' Ability to Work During the COVID-19 Response', issued 
        on August 10, 2021, during the period beginning on January 31, 
        2020, and ending on August 24, 2021;
            ``(3)(A) has been continuously physically present in the 
        United States for not less than 3 years; and
            ``(B)(i) is a national of a foreign state (or a part of a 
        foreign state) (or in the case of an alien having no 
        nationality, is a person who last habitually resided in such 
        state) with a designation under subsection (b) of section 244 
        on January 1, 2017;
            ``(ii) notwithstanding paragraphs (1)(A)(iv) and (3)(C) of 
        subsection (c) of section 244, had or was otherwise eligible 
        for temporary protected status under section 244 on that date; 
        and
            ``(iii) has not engaged in conduct since that date that 
        would render the alien ineligible for temporary protected 
        status under section 244(c)(2); or
            ``(4)(A) has been continuously physically present in the 
        United States for not less than 3 years; and
            ``(B)(i) was eligible for deferred enforced departure as of 
        January 20, 2021; and
            ``(ii) has not engaged in conduct since that date that 
        would render the alien ineligible for deferred enforced 
        departure.
    ``(c) Grounds of Ineligibility.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), an 
        alien seeking adjustment of status under this section shall 
        demonstrate that the alien--
                    ``(A) is not inadmissible under paragraph (2), (3), 
                (6)(E), (6)(G), (8), (10)(A), (10)(C), or (10)(D) of 
                section 212(a);
                    ``(B) has not ordered, incited, assisted, or 
                otherwise participated in the persecution of any person 
                on account of race, religion, nationality, membership 
                in a particular social group, or political opinion;
                    ``(C) has not been convicted of--
                            ``(i) any offense under Federal or State 
                        law, other than a State offense for which an 
                        essential element is the alien's immigration 
                        status, that is punishable by a maximum term of 
                        imprisonment of more than 1 year; or
                            ``(ii) 3 or more offenses under Federal or 
                        State law, other than State offenses for which 
                        an essential element is the alien's immigration 
                        status, for which the alien was convicted on 
                        different dates for each of the 3 offenses and 
                        imprisoned for an aggregate of 90 days or more; 
                        and
                    ``(D) has registered under the Military Selective 
                Service Act (50 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.), if the alien is 
                subject to registration under that Act.
            ``(2) Waiver.--With respect to any benefit under this 
        section, the Secretary of Homeland Security may waive the 
        grounds of inadmissibility under paragraph (2), (6)(E), (6)(G), 
        or (10)(D) of section 212(a)--
                    ``(A) for humanitarian purposes or family unity; or
                    ``(B) if a waiver is otherwise in the public 
                interest.
            ``(3) Treatment of expunged convictions.--For purposes of 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary--
                    ``(A) may not automatically treat an expunged 
                conviction as a conviction; and
                    ``(B) shall evaluate expunged convictions on a 
                case-by-case basis according to the nature and severity 
                of the underlying offense to determine whether, under 
                the circumstances, the alien should be eligible for 
                adjustment of status.
    ``(d) Limitation on Removal.--
            ``(1) In general.--With respect to an alien who is in 
        removal proceedings or subject to a final order of removal or 
        an order of voluntary departure, the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security shall provide the alien with a reasonable opportunity 
        to apply for relief under this section if the alien--
                    ``(A) requests an opportunity to so apply; or
                    ``(B) appears to be prima facie eligible for such 
                relief.
            ``(2) Stay of removal for certain children.--The Secretary 
        of Homeland Security shall stay the removal of an alien who--
                    ``(A) meets the requirements of subparagraphs (A) 
                and (B) of subsection (b)(1);
                    ``(B) subject to paragraphs (2) and (3) of 
                subsection (c), is not subject to a ground of 
                ineligibility under paragraph (1) of such subsection; 
                and
                    ``(C) is enrolled in--
                            ``(i) an early childhood education program;
                            ``(ii) an elementary school;
                            ``(iii) a secondary school; or
                            ``(iv) an education program assisting 
                        students in obtaining a high school diploma or 
                        its equivalent.
    ``(e) Effective Date.--The section shall take effect on the earlier 
of--
            ``(1) the date that is 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this section; or
            ``(2) May 1, 2022.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents for the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to 245A the following:

``Sec. 245B. Adjustment of status of certain entrants.''.

SEC. 60002. RECAPTURE OF UNUSED IMMIGRANT VISA NUMBERS.

    (a) Recapture of Unused Immigrant Visa Numbers.--
            (1) Ensuring future use of all immigrant visas.--Section 
        201(c)(1)(B)(ii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
        U.S.C. 1151(c)(1)(B)(ii)) is amended to read as follows:
                            ``(ii) In no case shall the number computed 
                        under subparagraph (A) be less than the sum 
                        of--
                                    ``(I) 226,000; and
                                    ``(II) the number computed under 
                                paragraph (3).''.
            (2) Recapturing unused visas.--Section 201 of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1151) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Recapturing Unused Visas.--
            ``(1) Family-sponsored visas.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding the numerical 
                limitations set forth in this section or in sections 
                202 or 203, beginning in fiscal year 2022, the number 
                of family-sponsored immigrant visas that may be issued 
                under section 203(a) shall be increased by the number 
                computed under subparagraph (B).
                    ``(B) Unused visas.--The number computed under this 
                subparagraph is the difference, if any, between--
                            ``(i) the difference, if any, between--
                                    ``(I) the number of visas that were 
                                originally made available to family-
                                sponsored immigrants under section 
                                201(c)(1) for fiscal years 1992 through 
                                2021, setting aside any unused visas 
                                made available to such immigrants in 
                                such fiscal years under section 
                                201(c)(3); and
                                    ``(II) the number of visas 
                                described in subclause (I) that were 
                                issued under section 203(a), or, in 
                                accordance with section 201(d)(2)(C), 
                                under section 203(b); and
                            ``(ii) the number of visas resulting from 
                        the calculation under clause (i) issued under 
                        section 203(a) after fiscal year 2021.
            ``(2) Employment-based visas.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding the numerical 
                limitations set forth in this section or in sections 
                202 or 203, beginning in fiscal year 2022, the number 
                of employment-based immigrant visas that may be issued 
                under section 203(b) shall be increased by the number 
                computed under subparagraph (B).
                    ``(B) Unused visas.--The number computed under this 
                paragraph is the difference, if any, between--
                            ``(i) the difference, if any, between--
                                    ``(I) the number of visas that were 
                                originally made available to 
                                employment-based immigrants under 
                                section 201(d)(1) for fiscal years 1992 
                                through 2021, setting aside any unused 
                                visas made available to such immigrants 
                                in such fiscal years under section 
                                201(d)(2); and
                                    ``(II) the number of visas 
                                described in subclause (I) that were 
                                issued under section 203(b), or, in 
                                accordance with section 201(c)(3)(C), 
                                under section 203(a); and
                            ``(ii) the number of visas resulting from 
                        the calculation under clause (i) issued under 
                        section 203(b) after fiscal year 2021.
            ``(3) Diversity visas.--Notwithstanding section 
        204(a)(1)(I)(ii)(II), an immigrant visa for an alien selected 
        in accordance with section 203(e)(2) in fiscal year 2017, 2018, 
        2019, 2020, or 2021 shall remain available to such alien (and 
        the spouse and children of such alien) if--
                    ``(A) the alien was refused a visa, prevented from 
                seeking admission, or denied admission to the United 
                States solely because of Executive Order 13769, 
                Executive Order 13780, Presidential Proclamation 9645, 
                or Presidential Proclamation 9983; or
                    ``(B) because of restrictions or limitations on 
                visa processing, visa issuance, travel, or other 
                effects associated with the COVID-19 public health 
                emergency--
                            ``(i) the alien was unable to receive a 
                        visa interview despite submitting an Online 
                        Immigrant Visa and Alien Registration 
                        Application (Form DS-260) to the Secretary of 
                        State; or
                            ``(ii) the alien was unable to seek 
                        admission or was denied admission to the United 
                        States despite being approved for a visa under 
                        section 203(c).''.

SEC. 60003. ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.

    Section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(n) Visa Availability.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding section (a)(3), the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security may accept for filing, an 
        application for adjustment of status from an alien (and the 
        spouse and children of such alien) if such alien--
                    ``(A) is the beneficiary of an approved petition 
                under section 204(a)(1);
                    ``(B) pays a supplemental fee of $1,500, plus $250 
                for each derivative beneficiary; and
                    ``(C) is otherwise eligible for such adjustment.
            ``(2) Exemption.--The Secretary of State shall exempt an 
        alien (and the spouse and children of such alien) from the 
        numerical limitations described in sections 201, 202, and 203 
        and the Secretary of Homeland Security may adjust the status of 
        such alien (and the spouse and children of such alien) to 
        lawful permanent resident if such alien submits or has 
        submitted an application for adjustment of status and--
                    ``(A) such alien--
                            ``(i) is the beneficiary of an approved 
                        petition under subparagraph (A)(i) or (B)(i)(I) 
                        of section 204(a)(1) that bears a priority date 
                        that is more than 2 years before the date the 
                        alien requests a waiver of the numerical 
                        limitations; and
                            ``(ii) pays a supplemental fee of $2,500;
                    ``(B) such alien--
                            ``(i) is the beneficiary of an approved 
                        petition under subparagraph (E) or (F) of 
                        section 204(a)(1) that bears a priority date 
                        that is more than 2 years before the date the 
                        alien requests a waiver of the numerical 
                        limitations; and
                            ``(ii) pays a supplemental fee of $5,000; 
                        or
                    ``(C) such alien--
                            ``(i) is the beneficiary of an approved 
                        petition under subparagraph (H) of section 
                        204(a)(1) that bears a priority date that is 
                        more than 2 years before the date the alien 
                        requests a waiver of the numerical limitations; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) pays a supplemental fee of $50,000.
            ``(3) Effective date.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The provisions of this 
                subsection--
                            ``(i) shall take effect on the earlier of 
                        the date that is--
                                    ``(I) 180 days after the date of 
                                the enactment of this subsection; or
                                    ``(II) May 1, 2022; and
                            ``(ii) except as provided in subparagraph 
                        (B), shall cease to have effect on September 
                        30, 2031.
                    ``(B) Continuation.--Paragraph (2) shall continue 
                in effect with respect to an alien who requested a 
                waiver of the numerical limitations and paid the 
                requisite fee prior to the date described in 
                subparagraph (A)(ii), until the Secretary of Homeland 
                Security renders a final administrative decision on 
                such application.''.

SEC. 60004. ADDITIONAL SUPPLEMENTAL FEES.

    (a) Treasury.--The supplemental fees described in subsection (b) of 
this section, and in sections 245B(a)(2) and 245(n) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act, as added by this subtitle, shall be deposited in 
the general fund of the Treasury of the United States.
    (b) Supplemental Petition Fee.--Section 204(a)(1) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1154(a)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)(i), by adding at the end the 
        following: ``A petition for classification by reason of a 
        relationship described in paragraph (1), (3), or (4) of section 
        203(a) shall be accompanied by a supplemental fee in the amount 
        of $100.'';
            (2) in subparagraph (B)(i)(I), by adding at the end the 
        following: ``Such petition shall be accompanied by a 
        supplemental fee in the amount of $100.'';
            (3) in subparagraph (E), by adding at the end the 
        following: ``Such petition shall be accompanied by a 
        supplemental fee in the amount of $800.'';
            (4) in subparagraph (F), by adding at the end the 
        following: ``Such petition shall be accompanied by a 
        supplemental fee in the amount of $800.''; and
            (5) in subparagraph (H), by adding at the end the 
        following: ``Such petition shall be accompanied by a 
        supplemental fee in the amount of $15,000.''.

SEC. 60005. U.S. CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION SERVICES.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services for fiscal year 2022, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$2,800,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the purpose of 
increasing the capacity of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to 
efficiently adjudicate applications described in sections 245B and 
245(n) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as added by sections 
60001 and 60003 of this Act, respectively, and to reduce case 
processing backlogs.

               Subtitle B--Community Violence Prevention

SEC. 61001. FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY-BASED VIOLENCE INTERVENTION 
              INITIATIVES.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Attorney General for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,500,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2031, for the purposes 
described in subsection (b).
    (b) Use of Funding.--The Attorney General, acting through the 
Assistant Attorney General of the Office of Justice Programs, the 
Director of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services, and the 
Director of the Office on Violence Against Women, shall use amounts 
appropriated by subsection (a)--
            (1) to award competitive grants or contracts to units of 
        local government, States, Indian Tribes, nonprofit community-
        based organizations, victim services providers, or other 
        entities as determined by the Attorney General, to support 
        evidence-informed intervention strategies to reduce community 
        violence;
            (2) to support training, technical assistance, research, 
        evaluation, and data collection on strategies to effectively 
        reduce community violence and ensure public safety; and
            (3) to support research, evaluation, and data collection on 
        the differing impact of community violence on demographic 
        categories.
    (c) Expenditure Requirement.--All expenditures made pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall be made on or before September 30, 2031.

