---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Subpart A - Bond Financing

## SEC. 135101. CREDIT TO ISSUER FOR CERTAIN INFRASTRUCTURE BONDS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter B of chapter 65 is amended by inserting 
before section 6432 the following new section:

``SEC. 6431A. CREDIT ALLOWED TO ISSUER FOR QUALIFIED INFRASTRUCTURE 
              BONDS.

    ``(a) In General.--In the case of a qualified infrastructure bond, 
the issuer of such bond shall be allowed a credit with respect to each 
interest payment under such bond which shall be payable by the 
Secretary as provided in subsection (b).
    ``(b) Payment of Credit.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall pay 
        (contemporaneously with each date on which interest is paid, 
        including any interest paid after the originally scheduled 
        payment date) to the issuer of such bond (or, at the direction 
        of the issuer, to any person who makes such interest payments 
        on behalf of such issuer) an amount equal to the applicable 
        percentage of such interest so paid.
            ``(2) Applicable percentage.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, except as provided in subsection (d), the 
        applicable percentage with respect to any bond shall be 
        determined under the following table:
``In the case of a bond issued      The applicable percentage is:
        during calendar year:
        2022 through 2024..................................         35%
        2025...............................................         32%
        2026...............................................         30%
        2027 and thereafter................................         28%

            ``(3) Limitation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The amount of any interest 
                payment taken into account under paragraph (1) with 
                respect to a bond for any payment date shall not exceed 
                the amount of interest which would have been payable 
                under such bond for such payment date if interest were 
                determined at the applicable credit rate multiplied by 
                the applicable amount for such bond for such payment 
                date.
                    ``(B) Applicable credit rate.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A)--
                            ``(i) In general.--The applicable credit 
                        rate is the rate which the Secretary estimates 
                        will permit the issuance of qualified 
                        infrastructure bonds with a specified maturity 
                        or redemption date without discount and without 
                        additional interest cost to the issuer.
                            ``(ii) Date of determination.--The 
                        applicable credit rate with respect to any 
                        qualified infrastructure bond shall be 
                        determined as of the first day on which there 
                        is a binding, written contract for the sale or 
                        exchange of the bond.
                    ``(C) Applicable amount.--
                            ``(i) Bonds with more than de minimis 
                        original issue discount.--In the case of any 
                        bond that has more than a de minimis amount of 
                        original issue discount (determined under the 
                        rules of section 1273(a)(3)), the applicable 
                        amount for a payment date is the issue price of 
                        such bond (within the meaning of section 148), 
                        as adjusted for any principal payments made 
                        prior to such date.
                            ``(ii) Other bonds.--In the case of any 
                        other bond, the applicable amount for a payment 
                        date is the outstanding principal amount of 
                        such bond on such payment date (determined 
                        without taking into account any principal 
                        payment on such bond on such date).
    ``(c) Qualified Infrastructure Bond.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of this section, the term 
        `qualified infrastructure bond' means any bond (other than a 
        private activity bond) issued as part of an issue if--
                    ``(A) 100 percent of the excess of available 
                project proceeds of such issue over the amounts in a 
                reasonably required reserve (within the meaning of 
                section 150(a)(3)) with respect to such issue are to be 
                used for--
                            ``(i) capital expenditures or operations 
                        and maintenance expenditures in connection with 
                        property the acquisition, construction, or 
                        improvement of which would be a capital 
                        expenditure, or
                            ``(ii) payments made by a State or 
                        political subdivision of a State to a custodian 
                        of a rail corridor for purposes of the 
                        transfer, lease, sale, or acquisition of an 
                        established railroad right-of-way consistent 
                        with section 8(d) of the National Trails Act of 
                        1968, but only if the Surface Transportation 
                        Board has issued a certificate of interim trail 
                        use or notice of interim trail use for purposes 
                        of authorizing such transfer, lease, sale, or 
                        acquisition,
                    ``(B) the interest on such bond would (but for this 
                section) be excludable from gross income under section 
                103,
                    ``(C) the issue price has not more than a de 
                minimis amount (determined under rules similar to the 
                rules of section 1273(a)(3)) of premium over the stated 
                principal amount of the bond, and
                    ``(D) prior to the issuance of such bond, the 
                issuer makes an irrevocable election to have this 
                section apply.
            ``(2) Applicable rules.--For purposes of applying paragraph 
        (1)--
                    ``(A) Not treated as federally guaranteed.--For 
                purposes of section 149(b), a qualified infrastructure 
                bond shall not be treated as federally guaranteed by 
                reason of the credit allowed under this section.
                    ``(B) Application of arbitrage rules.--For purposes 
                of section 148, the yield on a qualified infrastructure 
                bond shall be reduced by the credit allowed under this 
                section, except that no such reduction shall apply in 
                determining the amount of gross proceeds of an issue 
                that qualifies as a reasonably required reserve or 
                replacement fund.
    ``(d) Definition and Special Rules.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Interest includible in gross income.--For purposes of 
        this title, interest on any qualified infrastructure bond shall 
        be includible in gross income.
            ``(2) Available project proceeds.--The term `available 
        project proceeds' means--
                    ``(A) the excess of--
                            ``(i) the proceeds from the sale of an 
                        issue, over
                            ``(ii) issuance costs financed by the issue 
                        (to the extent that such costs do not exceed 2 
                        percent of such proceeds), and
                    ``(B) the proceeds from any investment of the 
                excess described in subparagraph (A).
            ``(3) Current refundings allowed.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of a bond issued to 
                refund a qualified infrastructure bond, such refunding 
                bond shall not be treated as a qualified infrastructure 
                bond for purposes of this section unless--
                            ``(i) the average maturity date of the 
                        issue of which the refunding bond is a part is 
                        not later than the average maturity date of the 
                        bonds to be refunded by such issue,
                            ``(ii) the amount of the refunding bond 
                        does not exceed the outstanding amount of the 
                        refunded bond,
                            ``(iii) the refunded bond is redeemed not 
                        later than 90 days after the date of the 
                        issuance of the refunding bond, and
                            ``(iv) the refunded bond was issued more 
                        than 30 days after the date of the enactment of 
                        this section.
                    ``(B) Applicable percentage limitation.--The 
                applicable percentage with respect to any bond to which 
                subparagraph (A) applies shall be 28 percent.
                    ``(C) Determination of average maturity.--For 
                purposes of subparagraph (A)(i), average maturity shall 
                be determined in accordance with section 147(b)(2)(A).
            ``(4) Application of davis-bacon act requirements with 
        respect to qualified infrastructure bonds.--Subchapter IV of 
        chapter 31 of title 40, United States Code, shall apply to 
        projects financed with the proceeds of qualified infrastructure 
        bonds.
    ``(e) Regulations.--The Secretary may prescribe such regulations 
and other guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out this 
section.''.
    (b) Gross-up of Payment to Issuers in Case of Sequestration.--In 
the case of any payment under section 6431A of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 made after the date of the enactment of this Act to which 
sequestration applies, the amount of such payment shall be increased to 
an amount equal to--
            (1) such payment (determined before such sequestration), 
        multiplied by
            (2) the quotient obtained by dividing 1 by the amount by 
        which 1 exceeds the percentage reduction in such payment 
        pursuant to such sequestration.
For purposes of this subsection, the term ``sequestration'' means any 
reduction in direct spending ordered in accordance with a sequestration 
report prepared by the Director of the Office and Management and Budget 
pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985 or the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 1324(b)(2) of title 31, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking ``or 6431'' and inserting ``6431, or 
        6431A''.
            (2) The table of sections for subchapter B of chapter 65 is 
        amended by inserting before the item relating to section 6432 
        the following new item:

``Sec. 6431A. Credit allowed to issuer for qualified infrastructure 
                            bonds.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to bonds issued after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 135102. ADVANCE REFUNDING BONDS.

    (a) In General.--Section 149(d) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``to advance refund another bond.'' in 
        paragraph (1) and inserting ``as part of an issue described in 
        paragraph (2), (3), or (4).'',
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (5) and (7), respectively,
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(2) Certain private activity bonds.--An issue is 
        described in this paragraph if any bond (issued as part of such 
        issue) is issued to advance refund a private activity bond 
        (other than a qualified 501(c)(3) bond).
            ``(3) Other bonds.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An issue is described in this 
                paragraph if any bond (issued as part of such issue), 
                hereinafter in this paragraph referred to as the 
                `refunding bond', is issued to advance refund a bond 
                unless--
                            ``(i) the refunding bond is only--
                                    ``(I) the first advance refunding 
                                of the original bond if the original 
                                bond is issued after 1985, or
                                    ``(II) the first or second advance 
                                refunding of the original bond if the 
                                original bond was issued before 1986,
                            ``(ii) in the case of refunded bonds issued 
                        before 1986, the refunded bond is redeemed not 
                        later than the earliest date on which such bond 
                        may be redeemed at par or at a premium of 3 
                        percent or less,
                            ``(iii) in the case of refunded bonds 
                        issued after 1985, the refunded bond is 
                        redeemed not later than the earliest date on 
                        which such bond may be redeemed,
                            ``(iv) the initial temporary period under 
                        section 148(c) ends--
                                    ``(I) with respect to the proceeds 
                                of the refunding bond not later than 30 
                                days after the date of issue of such 
                                bond, and
                                    ``(II) with respect to the proceeds 
                                of the refunded bond on the date of 
                                issue of the refunding bond, and
                            ``(v) in the case of refunded bonds to 
                        which section 148(e) did not apply, on and 
                        after the date of issue of the refunding bond, 
                        the amount of proceeds of the refunded bond 
                        invested in higher yielding investments (as 
                        defined in section 148(b)) which are nonpurpose 
                        investments (as defined in section 
                        148(f)(6)(A)) does not exceed--
                                    ``(I) the amount so invested as 
                                part of a reasonably required reserve 
                                or replacement fund or during an 
                                allowable temporary period, and
                                    ``(II) the amount which is equal to 
                                the lesser of 5 percent of the proceeds 
                                of the issue of which the refunded bond 
                                is a part or $100,000 (to the extent 
                                such amount is allocable to the 
                                refunded bond).
                    ``(B) Special rules for redemptions.--
                            ``(i) Issuer must redeem only if debt 
                        service savings.--Clause (ii) and (iii) of 
                        subparagraph (A) shall apply only if the issuer 
                        may realize present value debt service savings 
                        (determined without regard to administrative 
                        expenses) in connection with the issue of which 
                        the refunding bond is a part.
                            ``(ii) Redemptions not required before 90th 
                        day.--For purposes of clauses (ii) and (iii) of 
                        subparagraph (A), the earliest date referred to 
                        in such clauses shall not be earlier than the 
                        90th day after the date of issuance of the 
                        refunding bond.
            ``(4) Abusive transactions prohibited.--An issue is 
        described in this paragraph if any bond (issued as part of such 
        issue) is issued to advance refund another bond and a device is 
        employed in connection with the issuance of such issue to 
        obtain a material financial advantage (based on arbitrage) 
        apart from savings attributable to lower interest rates.'', and
            (4) by inserting after paragraph (5) (as so redesignated) 
        the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) Special rules for purposes of paragraph (3).--For 
        purposes of paragraph (3), bonds issued before October 22, 
        1986, shall be taken into account under subparagraph (A)(i) 
        thereof except--
                    ``(A) a refunding which occurred before 1986 shall 
                be treated as an advance refunding only if the 
                refunding bond was issued more than 180 days before the 
                redemption of the refunded bond, and
                    ``(B) a bond issued before 1986, shall be treated 
                as advance refunded no more than once before March 15, 
                1986.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 148(f)(4)(C) is amended by 
redesignating clauses (xiv) through (xvi) as clauses (xv) to (xvii), 
respectively, and by inserting after clause (xiii) the following new 
clause:
                            ``(xiv) Determination of initial temporary 
                        period.--For purposes of this subparagraph, the 
                        end of the initial section temporary period 
                        shall be determined without regard to section 
                        149(d)(3)(A)(iv).''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to advance refunding bonds issued more than 30 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 135103. PERMANENT MODIFICATION OF SMALL ISSUER EXCEPTION TO TAX-
              EXEMPT INTEREST EXPENSE ALLOCATION RULES FOR FINANCIAL 
              INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) Permanent Increase in Limitation.--Subparagraphs (C)(i), 
(D)(i), and (D)(iii)(II) of section 265(b)(3) are each amended by 
striking ``$10,000,000'' and inserting ``$30,000,000''.
    (b) Permanent Modification of Other Special Rules.--Section 
265(b)(3) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating clauses (iv), (v), and (vi) of 
        subparagraph (G) as clauses (ii), (iii), and (iv), 
        respectively, and moving such clauses to the end of 
        subparagraph (H) (as added by paragraph (2)), and
            (2) by striking so much of subparagraph (G) as precedes 
        such clauses and inserting the following:
                    ``(G) Qualified 501(c)(3) bonds treated as issued 
                by exempt organization.--In the case of a qualified 
                501(c)(3) bond (as defined in section 145), this 
                paragraph shall be applied by treating the 501(c)(3) 
                organization for whose benefit such bond was issued as 
                the issuer.
                    ``(H) Special rule for qualified financings.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In the case of a 
                        qualified financing issue--
                                    ``(I) subparagraph (F) shall not 
                                apply, and
                                    ``(II) any obligation issued as a 
                                part of such issue shall be treated as 
                                a qualified tax-exempt obligation if 
                                the requirements of this paragraph are 
                                met with respect to each qualified 
                                portion of the issue (determined by 
                                treating each qualified portion as a 
                                separate issue which is issued by the 
                                qualified borrower with respect to 
                                which such portion relates).''.
    (c) Inflation Adjustment.--Section 265(b)(3), as amended by 
subsection (b), is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph:
                    ``(I) Inflation adjustment.--In the case of any 
                calendar year after 2021, the $30,000,000 amounts 
                contained in subparagraphs (C)(i), (D)(i), and 
                (D)(iii)(II) shall each be increased by an amount equal 
                to--
                            ``(i) such dollar amount, multiplied by
                            ``(ii) the cost-of-living adjustment 
                        determined under section 1(f)(3) for such 
                        calendar year, determined by substituting 
                        `calendar year 2020' for `calendar year 2016' 
                        in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.
                Any increase determined under the preceding sentence 
                shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of 
                $100,000.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to obligations issued after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 135104. MODIFICATIONS TO QUALIFIED SMALL ISSUE BONDS.

    (a) Manufacturing Facilities To Include Production of Intangible 
Property and Functionally Related Facilities.--Subparagraph (C) of 
section 144(a)(12) is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(C) Manufacturing facility.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph--
                            ``(i) In general.--The term `manufacturing 
                        facility' means any facility which--
                                    ``(I) is used in the manufacturing 
                                or production of tangible personal 
                                property (including the processing 
                                resulting in a change in the condition 
                                of such property),
                                    ``(II) is used in the creation or 
                                production of intangible property which 
                                is described in section 
                                197(d)(1)(C)(iii), or
                                    ``(III) is functionally related and 
                                subordinate to a facility described in 
                                subclause (I) or (II) if such facility 
                                is located on the same site as the 
                                facility described in subclause (I) or 
                                (II).
                            ``(ii) Certain facilities included.--The 
                        term `manufacturing facility' includes 
                        facilities that are directly related and 
                        ancillary to a manufacturing facility 
                        (determined without regard to this clause) if--
                                    ``(I) those facilities are located 
                                on the same site as the manufacturing 
                                facility, and
                                    ``(II) not more than 25 percent of 
                                the net proceeds of the issue are used 
                                to provide those facilities.
                            ``(iii) Limitation on office space.--A rule 
                        similar to the rule of section 142(b)(2) shall 
                        apply for purposes of clause (i).
                            ``(iv) Limitation on refundings for certain 
                        property.--Subclauses (II) and (III) of clause 
                        (i) shall not apply to any bond issued on or 
                        before the date of the enactment of the Act to 
                        provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II 
                        of S. Con. Res. 14, or to any bond issued to 
                        refund a bond issued on or before such date 
                        (other than a bond to which clause (iii) of 
                        this subparagraph (as in effect before the date 
                        of the enactment of such Act) applies), either 
                        directly or in a series of refundings.''.
    (b) Increase in Limitations.--Section 144(a)(4) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking ``$10,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$30,000,000'', and
            (2) in the heading, by striking ``$10,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$30,000,000''.
    (c) Adjustment for Inflation.--Section 144(a)(4) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(H) Adjustment for inflation.--In the case of any 
                calendar year after 2021, the $30,000,000 amount in 
                subparagraph (A) shall be increased by an amount equal 
                to--
                            ``(i) such dollar amount, multiplied by
                            ``(ii) the cost-of-living adjustment 
                        determined under section 1(f)(3) for the 
                        calendar year, determined by substituting 
                        `calendar year 2020' for `calendar year 2016' 
                        in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.
                If any amount as increased under the preceding sentence 
                is not a multiple of $100,000, such amount shall be 
                rounded to the nearest multiple of $100,000.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to obligations issued after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 135105. EXPANSION OF CERTAIN EXCEPTIONS TO THE PRIVATE ACTIVITY 
              BOND RULES FOR FIRST-TIME FARMERS.

    (a) Increase in Dollar Limitation.--
            (1) In general.--Section 147(c)(2)(A) is amended by 
        striking ``$450,000'' and inserting ``$552,500''.
            (2) Repeal of separate lower dollar limitation on used farm 
        equipment.--Section 147(c)(2) is amended by striking 
        subparagraph (F) and by redesignating subparagraphs (G) and (H) 
        as subparagraphs (F) and (G), respectively.
            (3) Qualified small issue bond limitation conformed to 
        increased dollar limitation.--Section 144(a)(11)(A) is amended 
        by striking ``$250,000'' and inserting ``$552,500''.
            (4) Inflation adjustment.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 147(c)(2)(G), as 
                redesignated by paragraph (2), is amended--
                            (i) by striking ``after 2008, the dollar 
                        amount in subparagraph (A) shall be increased'' 
                        and inserting ``after 2021, the dollar amounts 
                        in subparagraph (A) and section 144(a)(11)(A) 
                        shall each be increased'', and
                            (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ``2007'' 
                        and inserting ``2020''.
                    (B) Cross-reference.--Section 144(a)(11) is amended 
                by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) Inflation adjustment.--For inflation 
                adjustment of dollar amount contained in subparagraph 
                (A), see section 147(c)(2)(G).''.
    (b) Substantial Farmland Determined on Basis of Average Rather Than 
Median Farm Size.--Section 147(c)(2)(E) is amended by striking 
``median'' and inserting ``average''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to bonds issued after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 135106. CERTAIN WATER AND SEWAGE FACILITY BONDS EXEMPT FROM VOLUME 
              CAP ON PRIVATE ACTIVITY BONDS.

    (a) In General.--Section 146(g) is amended by striking ``and'' at 
the end of paragraph (3), striking the period at the end of paragraph 
(4) and inserting ``, and'', and inserting after paragraph (4) the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(5) any exempt facility bond issued as part of an issue 
        described in paragraph (4) or (5) of section 142(a) if 95 
        percent or more of the net proceeds of such issue are to be 
        used to provide facilities which--
                    ``(A) will be used--
                            ``(i) by a person who was, as of July 1, 
                        2020, engaged in operation of a facility 
                        described in such paragraph, and
                            ``(ii) to provide service within the area 
                        served by such person on such date (or within a 
                        county or city any portion of which is within 
                        such area), or
                    ``(B) will be used by a successor in interest to 
                such person for the same use and within the same 
                service area as described in subparagraph (A).''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to bonds issued after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 135107. EXEMPT FACILITY BONDS FOR ZERO-EMISSION VEHICLE 
              INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) In General.--Section 142 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (14), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end,
                    (B) in paragraph (15), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``, or'', and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(16) zero-emission vehicle infrastructure.'', and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(n) Zero-Emission Vehicle Infrastructure.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of subsection (a)(16), the 
        term `zero-emission vehicle infrastructure' means any property 
        (not including a building and its structural components) if 
        such property is part of a unit which--
                    ``(A) is used to charge or fuel zero-emissions 
                vehicles,
                    ``(B) is located where the vehicles are charged or 
                fueled,
                    ``(C) is of a character subject to the allowance 
                for depreciation (or amortization in lieu of 
                depreciation),
                    ``(D) is made available for use by members of the 
                general public,
                    ``(E) accepts payment via a credit card reader, 
                including a credit card reader that uses contactless 
                technology, and
                    ``(F) is capable of charging or fueling vehicles 
                produced by more than one manufacturer (within the 
                meaning of section 30D(d)(3)).
            ``(2) Inclusion of utility service connections, etc.--The 
        term `zero-emission vehicle infrastructure' shall include any 
        utility service connections, utility panel upgrades, line 
        extensions and conduit, transformer upgrades, or similar 
        property, in connection with property meeting the requirements 
        of paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Zero-emissions vehicle.--The term `zero-emissions 
        vehicle' means--
                    ``(A) a zero-emission vehicle as defined in section 
                88.102-94 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, or
                    ``(B) a vehicle that produces zero exhaust 
                emissions of any criteria pollutant (or precursor 
                pollutant) or greenhouse gas under any possible 
                operational modes and conditions.
            ``(4) Zero-emissions vehicle infrastructure located within 
        other facilities or projects.--For purposes of subsection (a), 
        any zero-emission vehicle infrastructure located within--
                    ``(A) a facility or project described in subsection 
                (a), or
                    ``(B) an area adjacent to a facility or project 
                described in subsection (a) that primarily serves 
                vehicles traveling to or from such facility or project,
        shall be treated as described in the paragraph in which such 
        facility or project is described.
            ``(5) Exception for refueling property for fleet 
        vehicles.--Subparagraphs (D), (E), and (F) of paragraph (1) 
        shall not apply to property which is part of a unit which is 
        used exclusively by fleets of commercial or governmental 
        vehicles.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to obligations issued after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 135108. APPLICATION OF DAVIS-BACON ACT REQUIREMENTS WITH RESPECT 
              TO CERTAIN EXEMPT FACILITY BONDS.

    (a) In General.--Section 142(b) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Application of davis-bacon act requirements with 
        respect to certain exempt facility bonds.--If any proceeds of 
        any issue are used for construction, alteration, or repair of 
        any facility otherwise described in paragraph (4), (5), (15), 
        or (16) of subsection (a), such facility shall be treated for 
        purposes of subsection (a) as described in such paragraph only 
        if each entity that receives such proceeds to conduct such 
        construction, alteration, or repair agrees to comply with the 
        provisions of subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, United 
        States Code with respect to such construction, alteration, or 
        repair.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to bonds issued after the date of the enactment of this Act.
