---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Subpart B - Other Provisions Related to Infrastructure Financing

SEC. 135111. CREDIT FOR OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE COSTS OF GOVERNMENT-
              OWNED BROADBAND.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter B of chapter 65, as amended by the 
preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by inserting before 
section 6432 the following new section:

``SEC. 6431B. CREDIT FOR OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE COSTS OF 
              GOVERNMENT-OWNED BROADBAND.

    ``(a) In General.--In the case of any eligible governmental entity, 
there shall be allowed a credit equal to the applicable percentage of 
the qualified broadband expenses paid or incurred by such entity during 
the taxable year which credit shall be payable by the Secretary as 
provided in subsection (b).
    ``(b) Payment of Credit.--Upon receipt from an eligible 
governmental entity of such information as the Secretary may require 
for purposes of carrying out this section, the Secretary shall pay to 
such entity the amount of the credit determined under subsection (a) 
for the taxable year.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The amount of qualified broadband expenses taken 
into account under this section for any taxable year with respect to 
any qualified broadband network shall not exceed the product of $400 
multiplied by the number of qualified households subscribed to the 
qualified broadband service provided by such network (determined as of 
any time during such taxable year).
    ``(d) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Applicable percentage.--The term `applicable 
        percentage' means--
                    ``(A) in the case of any taxable year beginning in 
                2021 through 2026, 30 percent,
                    ``(B) in the case of any taxable year beginning in 
                2027, 26 percent, and
                    ``(C) in the case of any taxable year beginning in 
                2028, 24 percent.
            ``(2) Eligible governmental entity.--The term `eligible 
        governmental entity' means--
                    ``(A) any State, local, or Indian tribal 
                government,
                    ``(B) any political subdivision or instrumentality 
                of any government described in subparagraph (A), and
                    ``(C) any entity wholly owned by one or more 
                entities described in subparagraph (A) or (B).
        For purposes of this paragraph, the term `State' includes any 
        possession of the United States.
            ``(3) Qualified broadband expenses.--The term `qualified 
        broadband expenses' means so much of the amounts paid or 
        incurred for the operation and maintenance of a qualified 
        broadband network as are properly allocable to qualified 
        households subscribed to the qualified broadband service 
        provided by such network.
            ``(4) Qualified household.--The term `qualified household' 
        means a personal residence which--
                    ``(A) is located in a low-income community (as 
                defined in section 45D(e)), and
                    ``(B) did not have access to qualified broadband 
                service from the eligible governmental entity 
                (determined as of the beginning of the taxable year of 
                such entity).
            ``(5) Qualified broadband network.--The term `qualified 
        broadband network' means property owned by an eligible 
        governmental entity and used for the purpose of providing 
        qualified broadband service.
            ``(6) Qualified broadband service.--The term `qualified 
        broadband service' means fixed, terrestrial broadband service 
        providing downloads at a speed of at least 25 megabits per 
        second and uploads at a speed of at least 3 megabits per 
        second.
            ``(7) Taxable year.--Except as otherwise provided by the 
        Secretary, the term `taxable year' means, with respect to any 
        eligible governmental entity, the fiscal year of such entity.
    ``(e) Special Rules.--
            ``(1) Allocations.--For purposes of subsection (d)(3), 
        amounts shall be treated as properly allocated if allocated 
        ratably among the subscribers of the qualified broadband 
        service.
            ``(2) Denial of double benefit.--Qualified broadband 
        expenses shall not include any amount which is paid or 
        reimbursed (directly or indirectly) by any grant from the 
        Federal Government.
    ``(f) Regulations.--The Secretary may prescribe such regulations 
and other guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out this 
section.
    ``(g) Termination.--No credit shall be allowed under this section 
for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2028.''.
    (b) Payments Made Under Section 6431B(b) of Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986.--Section 255(h) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 905(h)) is amended by inserting: 
``Payments made under section 6431B(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986'' after the item related to Payments for Foster Care and 
Permanency.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 1324(b)(2) of title 31, United States Code, as 
        amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by 
        striking ``or 6431A'' and inserting ``6431A, or 6431B''.
            (2) The table of sections for subchapter B of chapter 65, 
        as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended 
        by inserting before the item relating to section 6432 the 
        following new item:

``Sec. 6431B. Credit for operations and maintenance costs of 
                            government-owned broadband.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020.
