---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Subtitle F - Supporting Entrepreneurial Second Chances

SEC. 100601. REENTRY ENTREPRENEURSHIP COUNSELING AND TRAINING FOR 
              INCARCERATED AND FORMERLY INCARCERATED INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) Reentry Entrepreneurship Counseling and Training for 
Incarcerated Individuals.--
            (1) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Small Business 
        Administration, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
        appropriated $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 
        2028 to carry out section 53 of the Small Business Act, as 
        added by paragraph (2). Amounts appropriated by this subsection 
        shall remain available for 3 fiscal years.
            (2) In general.--The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et 
        seq.) is amended by inserting after section 52, as added by 
        section 10301 of this title, the following:

``SEC. 53. REENTRY ENTREPRENEURSHIP COUNSELING AND TRAINING FOR 
              INCARCERATED INDIVIDUALS.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Covered individual.--The term `covered individual' 
        means an individual who is completing a term of imprisonment in 
        a facility designated as a minimum, low, or medium security.
            ``(2) Resource partners.--The term `resource partners' 
        means a small business development center (defined in section 
        3) or a women's business center (described under section 29).
    ``(b) Establishment.--The Administrator shall coordinate with 
resource partners and associations formed to pursue matters of common 
concern to resource partners to provide entrepreneurship counseling and 
training services to covered individuals pursuant to subsection (c).
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available under this section 
shall be used to--
            ``(1) develop and deliver a curriculum, including classroom 
        instruction and in-depth training to develop skills related to 
        business planning and financial literacy;
            ``(2) train mentors and instructors;
            ``(3) establish public-private partnerships to support 
        covered individuals; and
            ``(4) identify opportunities to access capital.''.
    (b) Reentry Entrepreneurship Counseling and Training for Formerly 
Incarcerated Individuals.--
            (1) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Small Business 
        Administration, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
        appropriated $5,000,000, for each of fiscal years 2022 through 
        2028 to carry out section 54 of the Small Business Act, as 
        added by paragraph (2). Amounts appropriated by this subsection 
        shall remain available for 3 fiscal years.
            (2) In general.--The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et 
        seq.) is amended by inserting after section 53, as added by 
        subsection (a), the following:

``SEC. 54. REENTRY ENTREPRENEURSHIP COUNSELING AND TRAINING FOR 
              FORMERLY INCARCERATED INDIVIDUALS.

    ``(a) Covered Individual Defined.--In this section, the term 
`covered individual' means an individual who completed a term of 
imprisonment.
    ``(b) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a program 
under which the Service Corps of Retired Executives authorized by 
section 8(b)(1)(B) shall provide entrepreneurship counseling and 
training services to covered individuals on a nationwide basis.
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available under this section 
shall be used by the Service Corps of Retired Executives for providing 
to covered individuals the following services:
            ``(1) Regular individualized mentoring sessions to identify 
        and support development of the business plans of covered 
        individuals.
            ``(2) Workshops on topics specifically tailored to meet the 
        needs of covered individuals.
            ``(3) Instructional videos designed specifically for 
        covered individuals on how to start or expand a small business 
        concern.''.

SEC. 100602. NEW START ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FOR FORMERLY 
              INCARCERATED INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Small Business Administration, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000, for each 
of fiscal years 2022 through 2028 for carrying out this section. 
Amounts appropriated by this subsection shall remain available for 3 
fiscal years.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) Covered individual.--The term ``covered individual'' 
        means an individual who--
                    (A) completed a term of imprisonment; and
                    (B) meets the offense eligibility requirements set 
                forth in any applicable policy notice or other guidance 
                issued by the Small Business Administration for the 
                program established under section 7(m) of the Small 
                Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(m)).
            (2) Intermediary; microloan.--The terms ``intermediary'' 
        and ``microloan'' have the meanings given those terms, 
        respectively, in section 7(m)(11) of the Small Business Act (15 
        U.S.C. 636(m)(11)).
            (3) Participating lender.--The term ``participating 
        lender'' means a participating lender described under section 
        7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)).
            (4) Pilot program.--The term ``pilot program'' means the 
        pilot program established under subsection (b).
            (5) Resource partner.--The term ``resource partner'' 
        means--
                    (A) a small business development center (defined in 
                section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632));
                    (B) a women's business center (described under 
                section 29 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 656));
                    (C) a chapter of the Service Corps of Retired 
                Executives (established under section 8(b)(1)(B) of 
                such Act ((15 U.S.C. 637(b)(1)(B))); and
                    (D) a Veteran Business Outreach Center (described 
                under section 32 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 657b)).
    (c) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a pilot 
program to award grants to organizations, or partnerships of 
organizations, to provide assistance to covered individuals throughout 
the United States.
    (d) Application.--
            (1) In general.--An organization or partnership of 
        organizations desiring a grant under the pilot program shall 
        submit an application to the Administrator in such form, in 
        such manner, and containing such information as the 
        Administrator may reasonably require.
            (2) Contents.--An application submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    (A) demonstrate that the applicant has a 
                partnership with, or is, an intermediary that shall 
                make microloans to covered individuals;
                    (B) demonstrate an ability to provide a full range 
                of entrepreneurial development programming on an 
                ongoing basis;
                    (C) include a plan for reaching covered 
                individuals, including by identifying particular target 
                populations within the community in which a covered 
                individual lives;
                    (D) include a plan to refer covered individuals who 
                have completed participation in the pilot program to 
                existing resource partners and participating lenders;
                    (E) include a comprehensive plan for the use of 
                grant funds, including estimates for administrative 
                expenses and outreach costs; and
                    (F) any other requirements, as determined by the 
                Administrator.
    (e) Matching Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--As a condition of a grant provided under 
        the pilot program, the Administrator shall require the 
        recipient of the grant to contribute an amount equal to 25 
        percent of the amount of the grant, obtained solely from non-
        Federal sources.
            (2) Form.--In addition to cash or other direct funding, the 
        contribution required under paragraph (1) may include indirect 
        costs or in-kind contributions paid for under non-Federal 
        programs.
