---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Subtitle E - Increasing Access to Lending and Investment Capital

## SEC. 100501. FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY ADVANTAGE LOAN PROGRAM.

    (a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Small Business Administration for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
to remain available until September 30, 2031--
            (1) $281,000,000 for carrying out paragraph (38) of section 
        7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)), as added by 
        subsection (b);
            (2) $5,000,000 for carrying out subparagraph (F) of such 
        paragraph (38); and
            (3) $314,000,000 for administrative expenses related to 
        carrying out such paragraph (38), including issuing interim 
        final rules.
    (b) Establishment.--Section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 636(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(38) Community advantage loan program.--
                    ``(A) Definitions.--In this paragraph--
                            ``(i) the term `covered institution' 
                        means--
                                    ``(I) a development company, as 
                                defined in section 103 of the Small 
                                Business Investment Act of 1958, 
                                participating in the loan program 
                                established under title V of such Act;
                                    ``(II) a non-Federally regulated 
                                entity certified as a community 
                                development financial institution under 
                                the Community Development Banking and 
                                Financial Institutions Act of 1994;
                                    ``(III) an intermediary, as defined 
                                in subsection (m)(11), that is a 
                                nonprofit organization and is 
                                participating in the microloan program 
                                under subsection (m); and
                                    ``(IV) an eligible intermediary, as 
                                defined in subsection (l)(1), 
                                participating in the small business 
                                intermediary lending pilot program 
                                established under subsection (l)(2);
                            ``(ii) the term `existing business' means a 
                        small business concern that has been in 
                        existence for not less than 2 years on the date 
                        on which a loan is made to the small business 
                        concern under the program;
                            ``(iii) the term `new business' means a 
                        small business concern that has been in 
                        existence for not more than 2 years on the date 
                        on which a loan is made to the small business 
                        concern under the program;
                            ``(iv) the term `program' means the 
                        Community Advantage Loan Program established 
                        under subparagraph (B);
                            ``(v) the term `small business concern in 
                        an underserved market' means a small business 
                        concern--
                                    ``(I) that is located in--
                                            ``(aa) a low- to moderate-
                                        income community;
                                            ``(bb) a HUBZone, as that 
                                        term is defined in section 
                                        31(b);
                                            ``(cc) a rural area; or
                                            ``(dd) any area for which a 
                                        disaster declaration or 
                                        determination described in 
                                        subparagraph (B), (C), or (E) 
                                        of subsection (b)(2) has been 
                                        made that has not terminated 
                                        more than 2 years before the 
                                        date (or later, as determined 
                                        by the Administrator) on which 
                                        a loan is made to such concern 
                                        under such subsection, or in 
                                        any area for which a major 
                                        disaster described in 
                                        subsection (b)(2)(A) has been 
                                        declared, that period shall be 
                                        5 years; or
                                    ``(II) that is a new business;
                                    ``(III) owned and controlled by 
                                veterans;
                                    ``(IV) owned and controlled by an 
                                individual who has completed a term of 
                                imprisonment;
                                    ``(V) owned and controlled by an 
                                individual with a disability, as that 
                                term is defined in section 3 of the 
                                Americans with Disabilities Act of 
                                1990;
                                    ``(VI) owned and controlled by a 
                                member of an Indian tribe individually 
                                identified (including parenthetically) 
                                in the most recent list published 
                                pursuant to section 104 of the 
                                Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List 
                                Act of 1994; or
                                    ``(VII) otherwise identified by the 
                                Administrator.
                    ``(B) Establishment.-- There is established a 
                Community Advantage Loan Program under which the 
                Administration may guarantee loans made by covered 
                institutions under this subsection, including loans 
                made to small business concerns in underserved market
                    ``(C) Requirement to make loans to underserved 
                markets.--Not less than 50 percent of loans made by a 
                covered institution under the program shall consist of 
                loans made to small business concerns in an underserved 
                market.
                    ``(D) Maximum loan amount.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), the maximum loan amount for a loan 
                        guaranteed under the program is $250,000.
                            ``(ii) Exceptions.--
                                    ``(I) Requested exception.--
                                            ``(aa) In general.--Upon 
                                        request by a covered 
                                        institution, the Administrator 
                                        may approve a guarantee of a 
                                        loan under the program that is 
                                        more than $250,000 and not more 
                                        than $350,000.
                                            ``(bb) Notification.--As 
                                        soon as practicable and not 
                                        later than 14 business days 
                                        after receiving a request under 
                                        item (aa), the Administration 
                                        shall--

                                                    ``(AA) review the 
                                                request; and

                                                    ``(BB) provide a 
                                                decision regarding the 
                                                request to the covered 
                                                institution making the 
                                                loan.

                                    ``(II) Major disasters.--The 
                                maximum loan amount for a loan 
                                guaranteed under the program that is 
                                made to a small business concern 
                                located in an area affected by a major 
                                disaster described in subsection 
                                (b)(2)(A) is $350,000.
                    ``(E) Interest rates.--The maximum interest rate 
                for a loan guaranteed under the program shall not 
                exceed the maximum interest rate, as determined by the 
                Administration, applicable to other loans guaranteed 
                under this subsection.
                    ``(F) Training.--The Administrator shall develop a 
                training course and provide free or low-cost training 
                to covered institutions making loans under the 
                program.''.

SEC. 100502. FUNDING FOR CREDIT ENHANCEMENT AND SMALL DOLLAR LOAN 
              FUNDING.

    (a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Small Business Administration for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
to remain available until September 30, 2031--
            (1) $3,365,000,000 to carry out paragraph (39) of section 
        7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)), as added by 
        subsection (b); and
            (2) $1,100,000,000 for administrative expenses related to 
        carrying out such paragraph (39), including issuing interim 
        final rules.
    (b) Small Dollar Loan Funding.--Section 7(a) of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)), as amended by section 10501, is further 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(A)(i), in the third sentence, by 
        striking ``; and'' and all that follows through the period at 
        the end and inserting a period;
            (2) in paragraph (26), by inserting ``(except for those 
        collected under paragraph (39))'' after ``profits''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(39) Small dollar loan funding.--
                    ``(A) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
                            ``(i) Small government contractor.--The 
                        term `small government contractor' means a 
                        small business concern that is performing a 
                        Government contract.
                            ``(ii) Small manufacturer.--The term `small 
                        manufacturer' means a small business concern 
                        that is assigned a North American Industry 
                        Classification System code beginning with 31, 
                        32, or 33 at the time at which the small 
                        business concern receives loan under this 
                        subsection.
                    ``(B) Direct loans.--The Administrator is 
                authorized to originate and disburse direct loans, 
                including through partnerships with third parties, to 
                small business concerns.
                    ``(C) Terms.--
                            ``(i) Loan size.--Notwithstanding paragraph 
                        (3)(C) of this subsection, a loan made in 
                        accordance with this paragraph shall be--
                                    ``(I) except as provided in 
                                subclause (II), not more than $150,000; 
                                or
                                    ``(II) not more than $1,000,000, if 
                                the borrower is a small manufacturer or 
                                a small government contractor.
                    ``(D) Fees.--With respect to each loan made in 
                accordance with this paragraph, the Administrator, an 
                authorized third party, or an agent may--
                            ``(i) impose, collect, retain, and utilize 
                        fees, which may be charged to the borrower, to 
                        cover any costs associated with referring 
                        applications or originating, making, 
                        underwriting, disbursing, closing, servicing, 
                        or liquidating the loan, including any direct 
                        lending agent costs, other program or contract 
                        costs, or other agent administrative expenses;
                            ``(ii) impose, collect, retain, and use 
                        fees (including unused fees and draw fees), 
                        which may be charged to the borrower on loans 
                        for revolving lines of credit; and
                            ``(iii) pay third parties, including direct 
                        lending agents and financial institutions, with 
                        which the Administration partners for 
                        assistance in referring applicants or 
                        promoting, originating, making, underwriting, 
                        disbursing, closing, servicing, or liquidating 
                        loans in accordance with this paragraph on 
                        behalf of the Administration.
                    ``(E) Other terms.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not later than 90 days 
                        after the date of the enactment of this 
                        paragraph, the Administrator shall issue 
                        interim final rules relating to the 
                        underwriting criteria, interest rate, maturity, 
                        and other terms of a loan made in accordance 
                        with this paragraph and revising any other 
                        rules necessary to carry out this paragraph.
                            ``(ii) Repayment.--Not later than 90 days 
                        after the date of the enactment of this 
                        paragraph, the Administrator shall issue rules 
                        to allow reasonable assurance of repayment of a 
                        loan made in accordance with this paragraph, 
                        including reasonable assurance of repayment 
                        from the assets converting to cash to be the 
                        sole and primary form of repayment under this 
                        paragraph.''.

SEC. 100503. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY FEE REDUCTIONS.

    (a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Small Business Administration for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$1,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, for 
carrying out this section.
    (b) 7(a) Loan Program.--Section 326 of the Economic Aid to Hard-Hit 
Small Businesses, Nonprofits, and Venues Act (title III of division N 
of Public Law 116-260; 134 Stat. 2036; 15 U.S.C. 636 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``October 1, 2021'' 
        and inserting ``October 1, 2026''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``October 1, 2021'' 
        and inserting ``October 1, 2026''.
    (c) Other Fees.--Section 327 of the Economic Aid to Hard-Hit Small 
Businesses, Nonprofits, and Venues Act (title III of division N of 
Public Law 116-260; 134 Stat. 2037; 15 U.S.C. 636 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``September 30, 
        2021'' and inserting ``September 30, 2026''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``September 30, 
        2021'' and inserting ``September 30, 2026''.

SEC. 100504. FUNDING FOR COOPERATIVES.

    (a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Small Business Administration for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$500,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, for 
carrying out paragraph (40) of section 7(a) of the Small Business Act 
(15 U.S.C. 636(a)), as added by subsection (b).
    (b) Cooperative Lending Pilot.--Section 7(a) of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)), as amended by section 10502, is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
            ``(40) Cooperative lending pilot.--
                    ``(A) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
                            ``(i) Community financial institution.--The 
                        term `community financial institution' has the 
                        meaning given in paragraph (36)(A);
                            ``(ii) Cooperative.--The term 
                        `cooperative'--
                                    ``(I) means an entity determined by 
                                the Administrator to be a cooperative; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) includes an entity owned by 
                                employees or consumers of the entity.
                            ``(iii) Eligible employee-owned business 
                        concern.--The term `eligible employee-owned 
                        business concern' means--
                                    ``(I) a cooperative in which the 
                                employees of the cooperative are 
                                eligible for membership;
                                    ``(II) a qualified employee trust; 
                                or
                                    ``(III) other employee-owned 
                                entities as determined by the 
                                Administrator.
                            ``(iv) Pilot program.--The term `pilot 
                        program' means the pilot program established 
                        under subparagraph (B).
                    ``(B) Establishment.--There is established a pilot 
                program under which the Administrator shall guarantee 
                loans (including loans made by community financial 
                institutions), without the requirement of a personal or 
                entity guarantee, where such loans are made to 
                cooperatives or eligible employee-owned business 
                concerns.
                    ``(C) Termination.--The pilot program shall 
                terminate on the date that is 5 years after the date of 
                enactment of this paragraph.''.
    (c) Delegated Lending Authority for Preferred Lenders.--Section 
5(b)(7) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 634(b)(7)) is amended by 
striking ``paragraph (15) or (35)'' and inserting ``paragraph (15), 
(35), or (40)''.

SEC. 100505. FUNDING FOR DIRECT DEBENTURES.

    (a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Small Business Administration for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
to remain available until September 30, 2031--
            (1) $2,118,000,000 for carrying out subsection (j) of 
        section 503 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 
        U.S.C. 697), as added by subsection (b); and
            (2) $628,000,000 for administrative expenses related to 
        carrying out such subsection (j), including issuing interim 
        final rules.
    (b) Direct Debentures.--Section 503 of the Small Business 
Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 697) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(j) Direct Debentures.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection--
                    ``(A) the term `direct debenture' means a debenture 
                guaranteed by the Administrator under the authority 
                under paragraph (2);
                    ``(B) the term `eligible entity' means--
                            ``(i) a small business concern in an 
                        underserved market;
                            ``(ii) a small government contractor; or
                            ``(iii) a small manufacturer;
                    ``(C) the term `renewable energy equipment'--
                            ``(i) means such equipment as the 
                        Administrator may designate as renewable energy 
                        equipment; and
                            ``(ii) includes solar panels, wind 
                        turbines, and battery storage;
                    ``(D) the term `small business concern in an 
                underserved market' has the meaning given in section 
                7(a)(38) of the Small Business Act;
                    ``(E) the term `small government contractor' means 
                a small business concern that is performing a 
                government contract; and
                    ``(F) the term `small manufacturer' means a small 
                business concern that is assigned a North American 
                Industry Classification System code beginning with 31, 
                32, or 33 at the time at which the small business 
                concern receives loan under this subsection.
            ``(2) Authority.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the Administrator may guarantee the timely payment 
        of all principal and interest as scheduled under this 
        subsection on a debenture issued by any qualified State or 
        local development company under the same terms, conditions, and 
        processes as a guarantee made under the authority under 
        subsection (a)(1).
            ``(3) Use of proceeds.--The proceeds of a direct 
        debenture--
                    ``(A) for a small business concern that is an 
                eligible entity, may be used for any purpose for which 
                a loan under section 502 may be used, including to 
                acquire renewable energy equipment and for working 
                capital; and
                    ``(B) for a small business concern that is not an 
                eligible entity, may be used to acquire renewable 
                energy equipment.
            ``(4) Maximum loan amount.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A direct debenture shall be in 
                an amount not more than $6,500,000.
                    ``(B) Cost of project.--The amount of the proceeds 
                of a direct debenture may not exceed the amount equal 
                to 100 percent of the cost of the project for which the 
                proceeds are to be used.
            ``(5) Criteria for assistance.--
                    ``(A) No community injection funds required.--
                Compliance with subparagraph (B) of section 502(a)(3) 
                shall not be required for a direct debenture.
                    ``(B) Funding from small business concern.--A small 
                business concern receiving funds under a direct 
                debenture--
                            ``(i) for a direct debenture used for 
                        working capital, is not required to provide 
                        funds toward the total cost of the project 
                        financed;
                            ``(ii) for a direct debenture used for 
                        renewable energy equipment, may provide not 
                        more than 10 percent of the total cost of the 
                        project financed; and
                            ``(iii) for a direct debenture used for any 
                        other eligible purpose, shall provide not less 
                        than 5 percent of the total cost of the project 
                        financed.
            ``(6) Fees.--With respect to each debenture made in 
        accordance with this paragraph, in addition to other fees 
        authorized under this section, the Administrator, an authorized 
        third party, or an agent may--
                    ``(A) impose, collect, retain, and utilize fees, 
                which shall be charged to the borrower, to cover any 
                costs associated with referring applications or 
                originating, underwriting, making, disbursing, closing, 
                and servicing, or liquidating the loan, including any 
                central servicing agent costs, other program or 
                contract costs, or other agent administrative expenses;
                    ``(B) impose, collect, retain, and use fees 
                (including unused fees and draw fees), which may be 
                charged to the borrower on loans for revolving lines of 
                credit; and
                    ``(C) establish fees that may be charged by interim 
                lenders for interim financing provided in connection 
                with a direct debenture, including for assistance in 
                referring applicants or promoting, originating, making, 
                underwriting, disbursing, closing, servicing, or 
                liquidating loans in accordance with this paragraph on 
                behalf of the Administration.
            ``(7) Interim financing.--Nothing in this subsection shall 
        be construed to restrict the ability of a State or local 
        development company to use a third party lender or another 
        lender to provide interim financing for all project costs 
        except the borrower's contribution, in accordance with section 
        120.890 of title 13, Code of Federal Regulations, or any 
        successor thereto, in connection with providing a direct 
        debenture to a small business concern.
            ``(8) Other terms.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this paragraph, the 
                Administrator shall issue interim final rules relating 
                to the underwriting criteria, interest rate, maturity, 
                collateral, servicing, and other terms or project 
                requirements of a direct debenture made in accordance 
                with this subsection and revising any other rules 
                necessary to carry out this subsection.
                    ``(B) Repayment.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this subsection, the 
                Administrator shall issue rules to allow reasonable 
                assurance of repayment of a direct debenture, including 
                reasonable assurance of repayment from the assets 
                converting to cash to be the primary form of repayment 
                under this subsection.''.
    (c) Calculation of Job Creation Requirement.--Section 501(e)(4) of 
the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 695(e)(4)) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(4) Loans for projects of small manufacturers and direct 
debenture loans under section 503(j) shall be excluded from 
calculations under paragraph (2) or (3) of this subsection.''.
