---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Subtitle B - Empowering Small Business Creation and Expansion in Underrepresented Communities

## SEC. 100201. GRANTS FOR BUSINESS INCUBATORS.

    (a) Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Small Business 
        Administration for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
        Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000,000, to remain 
        available until September 30, 2031, for carrying out section 50 
        of the Small Business Act, as added by subsection (b).
            (2) Set aside.--Of the amounts made available under this 
        subsection for a fiscal year, not more than 15 percent shall be 
        available for administrative expenses and costs related to 
        monitoring and oversight.
    (b) Establishment.--The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.) 
is amended by inserting after section 49, as added by section 10104, 
the following:

``SEC. 50. GRANTS FOR BUSINESS INCUBATORS.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Business incubator.--The term `business incubator' 
        means an organization that--
                    ``(A) provides resources, which may include 
                physical workspace and facilities, to startups and 
                established small business concerns;
                    ``(B) is designed to accelerate the growth and 
                success of small business concerns through a variety of 
                business support resources and services, including--
                            ``(i) access to capital, business 
                        education, and counseling;
                            ``(ii) networking opportunities;
                            ``(iii) mentorship opportunities; and
                            ``(iv) other services intended to aid in 
                        developing a business.
            ``(2) Economic development organization.--The term 
        `economic development organization'--
                    ``(A) means a regional, State, tribal, or local 
                private nonprofit organization established for purposes 
                of promoting or otherwise facilitating economic 
                development; and
                    ``(B) includes community financial institutions, as 
                defined in section 7(a)(36)(A).
            ``(3) Eligible applicant.--The term `eligible applicant' 
        means--
                    ``(A) an economic development organization;
                    ``(B) an eligible entity, as defined in section 
                7(j)(10)(K)(i)(II);
                    ``(C) an SBA partner organization; or
                    ``(D) any entity that provides support to startups 
                and small business concerns, as determined by the 
                Administrator.
            ``(4) Eligible small business concern.--The term `eligible 
        small business concern' means a business concern that--
                    ``(A) is organized or incorporated in the United 
                States;
                    ``(B) is operating primarily in the United States;
                    ``(C) meets--
                            ``(i) the applicable industry-based size 
                        standard established under section 3; or
                            ``(ii) the alternate size standard 
                        applicable to the program under section 7(a) or 
                        the loan programs under title V of the Small 
                        Business Investment Act of 1958;
                    ``(D) is in the planning stages or has been in 
                business for not more than 5 years as of the date on 
                which assistance under this section commences; and
                    ``(E) is--
                            ``(i) owned and controlled by 1 or more 
                        members of an underrepresented community; or
                            ``(ii) a Native Entity, as defined in 
                        section 7(j)(10)(K)(i).
            ``(5) Member of an underrepresented community.--The term 
        `member of an underrepresented community' means an individual 
        who is--
                    ``(A) a resident of--
                            ``(i) a low-income community, as defined in 
                        section 45D(e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
                        1986;
                            ``(ii) a low-income rural community; or
                            ``(iii) a HUBZone, as defined in section 
                        31(b);
                    ``(B) a member of an Indian or Alaska Native tribe, 
                band, nation, pueblo, village, community, component 
                band, or component reservation, individually identified 
                (including parenthetically) in the most recent list 
                published pursuant to section 104 of the Federally 
                Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994;
                    ``(C) an individual with a disability, as defined 
                in section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 
                1990;
                    ``(D) a veteran;
                    ``(E) an individual who completed a term of 
                imprisonment; or
                    ``(F) otherwise identified by the Administrator.
            ``(6) SBA partner organization.--The term `SBA partner 
        organization' means any organization awarded financial 
        assistance in the form of a grant, cooperative agreement, or 
        contract for the purpose of conducting a public project funded, 
        either in whole or in part, under a program of the 
        Administration.
    ``(b) Authority.--The Administrator may provide financial 
assistance on a competitive basis in the form of a grant, prize, 
cooperative agreement, or contract for an eligible applicant to provide 
the services of a business incubator to eligible small business 
concerns.
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--An eligible applicant that receives assistance 
under this section shall support areas that serve members of an 
underrepresented community and provide services that shall--
            ``(1) be carried out in such areas as to provide maximum 
        accessibility and benefits to the eligible small business 
        concerns that the project is intended to serve; and
            ``(2) not impose or otherwise collect a fee or other 
        compensation from eligible small business concerns in 
        connection with such services.
    ``(d) One or More Business Incubators.--An eligible applicant that 
receives financial assistance under this section may share such 
assistance among one or more business incubators to expand access to 
resources, information, and best practices.
    ``(e) Award Amount.--An award of financial assistance under this 
section shall be for not more than $1,250,000 for each fiscal year for 
which the award is granted.
    ``(f) Penalties for Failure to Abide by Terms or Conditions of 
Award.--At the discretion of the Administrator and in addition to any 
other civil or criminal consequences, the Administrator shall withhold 
payments to an eligible applicant or order the eligible applicant to 
return any assistance provided under this section for failure to abide 
by the terms and conditions of such assistance.''.

SEC. 100202. OFFICE OF NATIVE AMERICAN AFFAIRS.

    (a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Small Business Administration, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,000,000 for each 
of fiscal years 2022 through 2031 for carrying out section 51 of the 
Small Business Act, as added by subsection (b). Amounts appropriated by 
this subsection shall remain available until September 30, 2031.
    (b) Establishment.--The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.) 
is amended by inserting after section 50, as added by section 10201 of 
this title, the following:

``SEC. 51. OFFICE OF NATIVE AMERICAN AFFAIRS.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian Tribe' has the 
        meaning given in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and 
        Education Assistance Act.
            ``(2) Native american.--The term `Native American' means a 
        member of an Indian Tribe.
            ``(3) Native hawaiian organization.--The term `Native 
        Hawaiian Organization' has the meaning given in section 6207 of 
        the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
            ``(4) Resource partners.--The term `resource partners' 
        means--
                    ``(A) small business development centers;
                    ``(B) women's business centers described in section 
                29;
                    ``(C) chapters of the Service Corps of Retired 
                Executives established under section 8(b)(1)(B); and
                    ``(D) Veteran Business Outreach Centers described 
                in section 32.
    ``(b) Establishment.--There is established in the Administration an 
Office of Native American Affairs, in this section referred to as the 
`Office', which shall provide entrepreneurship outreach and development 
assistance to Native Americans, Native Hawaiian Organizations and 
members thereof, and Indian Tribes, through the Native American 
Outreach Program established under subsection (c).
    ``(c) Native American Outreach Program.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish and 
        administer a Native American Outreach Program within the 
        Office--
                    ``(A) to ensure that small business concerns owned 
                and controlled by Native Americans, Native Hawaiian 
                Organizations, and Indian Tribes, and Native American 
                entrepreneurs have access to programs and services of 
                the Administration;
                    ``(B) to provide information to State, local, and 
                tribal governments and other interested persons about 
                Federal assistance available to small business concerns 
                owned and controlled by Native Americans, Native 
                Hawaiian Organizations, and Indian Tribes, and Native 
                American entrepreneurs; and
                    ``(C) to ensure access to in-person and virtual 
                counseling and training services to small business 
                concerns owned and controlled by Native Americans, 
                Native Hawaiian Organizations, and Indian Tribes, and 
                Native American entrepreneurs.
            ``(2) Services.--The services described in paragraph (1) 
        shall include--
                    ``(A) financial education on applying for and 
                securing credit, loan guarantees, surety bonds, and 
                investment capital, managing financial operations, and 
                preparing and presenting financial statements and 
                business plans;
                    ``(B) education on management of a small business 
                concern, including planning, organizing, staffing, and 
                marketing;
                    ``(C) identifying domestic and international market 
                opportunities; and
                    ``(D) implementing economic and business 
                development strategies to improve long-term job 
                growth.''.

SEC. 100203. OFFICE OF RURAL AFFAIRS.

    (a) Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Small Business 
        Administration, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
        appropriated, $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 
        2031 for carrying out this section. Amounts appropriated by 
        this subsection shall remain available until September 30, 
        2031.
            (2) Set aside.--Of the amounts made available under this 
        subsection for a fiscal year, not more than 15 percent shall be 
        available for administrative expenses related to carrying out 
        this section.
    (b) Office of Rural Affairs.--Section 26 of the Small Business Act 
(15 U.S.C. 653) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Rural Small Business Conferences.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Office shall administer 1 or more 
        annual Rural Small Business Conferences, to be held in various 
        regions of the United States. The purpose of such Conferences 
        shall be to--
                    ``(A) promote policies and programs of the 
                Administration specific to small business concerns 
                located in rural areas, and make publicly available 
                information about such policies and programs;
                    ``(B) coordinate with all offices of the 
                Administration, resource partners, lenders, and other 
                interested persons to ensure that the needs of small 
                business concerns located in rural area are being met; 
                and
                    ``(C) analyze data on the effectiveness of programs 
                of the Administration that benefit small business 
                concerns located in rural areas.''.

SEC. 100204. OFFICE OF EMERGING MARKETS.

    (a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Small Business Administration, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,000,000 for each 
of fiscal years 2022 through 2031 for carrying out subsection (o) of 
section 7 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636), as added by 
subsection (b). Amounts appropriated by this subsection shall remain 
available until September 30, 2031.
    (b) Establishment.--Section 7 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
636) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(o) Office of Emerging Markets.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection--
                    ``(A) the term `Director' means the Director of the 
                Office of Emerging Markets;
                    ``(B) the term `microloan program' means the 
                program described in subsection (m);
                    ``(C) the term `small business concern in an 
                emerging market' means a small business concern--
                            ``(i) that is located in--
                                    ``(I) a low-income or moderate-
                                income area for purposes of the 
                                Community Development Block Grant 
                                Program under title I of the Housing 
                                and Community Development Act of 1974; 
                                or
                                    ``(II) a HUBZone, as that term is 
                                defined in section 31(b);
                            ``(ii) that is growing, newly established, 
                        or a startup;
                            ``(iii) owned and controlled by veterans;
                            ``(iv) owned and controlled by individuals 
                        with a disability, as defined in section 3 of 
                        the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
                            ``(v) owned and controlled by other 
                        individuals or groups identified by the 
                        Administrator.
            ``(2) Establishment.--There is established within the 
        Office of Capital Access of the Administration an office to be 
        known as the `Office of Emerging Markets', which shall be 
        responsible for the planning, coordination, implementation, 
        evaluation, and improvement of the efforts of the Administrator 
        to enhance the economic well-being of small business concerns 
        in an emerging market.
            ``(3) Administration.--The Office of Emerging Markets shall 
        be administered by a Director, who shall--
                    ``(A) create and implement strategies and programs 
                that provide an integrated approach to the development 
                of small business concerns in an emerging market;
                    ``(B) review the effectiveness and impact of access 
                to capital programs (including the microloan program) 
                of the Administration and recommend policies on such 
                programs with respect to small business concerns in an 
                emerging market;
                    ``(C) coordinate with the Office of Entrepreneurial 
                Development and the Office of Veterans Business 
                Development of the Administration to establish 
                partnerships to advance the goal of improving the 
                economic success of small business concerns in an 
                emerging market;
                    ``(D) consult with the Associate Administrator of 
                the Office of Field Operations; and
                    ``(E) coordinate the activities of--
                            ``(i) the SBIC Working Group established 
                        under section 10404 of the Act to provide for 
                        reconciliation pursuant to title II of S. Con. 
                        Res. 14;
                            ``(ii) the Office of Native American 
                        Affairs established under section 51; and
                            ``(iii) the Office of Rural Affairs 
                        established under section 26.''.

SEC. 100205. STATE TRADE EXPANSION PROGRAM.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Small Business Administration, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 
through 2025 for carrying out section 22(l) of the Small Business Act 
(15 U.S.C. 649(l)). Amounts appropriated by this subsection shall 
remain available for 3 fiscal years.
