---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Subtitle D - Increasing Equity Opportunities for Small Manufacturers

SEC. 100401. INCREASING EQUITY INVESTMENT BY THE SBIC PROGRAM.

    (a) Venture Small Business Investment Company Facility.--
            (1) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Administration for 
        fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 
        2031, $9,500,000,000, to be deposited into the facility 
        established under section 321 of the Small Business Investment 
        Act of 1958, as added by paragraph (2).
            (2) Establishment.--The Small Business Investment Act of 
        1958 (15 U.S.C. 661 et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) in section 103 (15 U.S.C. 662)--
                            (i) in paragraph (9)(B)(iii)--
                                    (I) in subclause (II), by striking 
                                ``and'' at the end;
                                    (II) in subclause (III), by adding 
                                ``and'' at the end; and
                                    (III) by adding at the end the 
                                following:
                                    ``(IV) funds obtained from any 
                                financial institution identified under 
                                section 302(b);''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (10)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), by adding 
                                ``and'' at the end; and
                                    (II) by striking subparagraphs (B) 
                                and (C) and inserting the following:
                    ``(B) partnership interests purchased by the 
                Administration, as described in section 321.'';
                    (B) in section 302(a)(1) (15 U.S.C. 682(a)(1))--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or'' 
                        at the end;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) $20,000,000, adjusted every 5 years for 
                inflation, with respect to each licensee participating 
                in the facility under section 321.'';
                    (C) in section 303(b)(2)(B) (15 U.S.C. 
                683(b)(2)(B)), by striking ``$350,000,000'' and 
                inserting ``$400,000,000''; and
                    (D) in section 304--
    ``(e) Notwithstanding section 310(c)(6), a licensee under section 
321 may, subject to regulations to be issued by the Administration, 
invest equity capital in investment funds which--
            ``(1) are majority controlled by members of an 
        underrepresented community (as defined in section 50 of the 
        Small Business Act);
            ``(2) receive annual assistance provided by such licensee; 
        or
            ``(3) meet additional criteria as determined by the 
        Administration.''; and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 321. VENTURE SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANY FACILITY.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Covered investments.--The term `covered investments' 
        means investments in--
                    ``(A) infrastructure, including--
                            ``(i) roads, bridges, and mass transit;
                            ``(ii) water supply and sewer;
                            ``(iii) the electrical grid;
                            ``(iv) broadband and telecommunications;
                            ``(v) clean energy; or
                            ``(vi) child care and elder care;
                    ``(B) manufacturing;
                    ``(C) low-income communities, as that term is 
                defined in section 45D(e) of the Internal Revenue Code 
                of 1986;
                    ``(D) HUBZones, as defined in section 31(b) of the 
                Small Business Act;
                    ``(E) small business concerns owned and controlled 
                by a member of an Indian tribe individually identified 
                (including parenthetically) in the most recent list 
                published pursuant to section 104 of the Federally 
                Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994;
                    ``(F) small business concerns owned and controlled 
                by an individual with a disability, as defined in 
                section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 
                1990;
                    ``(G) small business concerns owned and controlled 
                by a veteran; or
                    ``(H) small business concerns identified by the 
                Administrator as critical.
            ``(2) Facility.--The term `facility' means the facility 
        established under subsection (b).
            ``(3) Partnership interest.--The term `partnership 
        interest' means a limited partnership equity interest in a 
        licensee purchased and held by the Administration under this 
        section.
            ``(4) Venture small business investment company.--The term 
        `venture small business investment company' means a private 
        equity fund--
                    ``(A) that makes early-stage venture capital 
                investments in small business concerns approved to 
                participate in the facility by the Administration; and
                    ``(B) for which 75 percent of total financings 
                shall be invested in covered investments, of which not 
                more than 33 percent of such investments are in small 
                business concerns in infrastructure or manufacturing.
    ``(b) Establishment and Administration of Facility.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator shall establish and 
        carry out a facility to purchase partnership interests from 
        venture small business investment companies.
            ``(2) Administration.--The facility shall be administered 
        by the Administrator acting through the Associate Administrator 
        described in section 201.
            ``(3) Use of amounts.--The Administrator shall use amounts 
        deposited in the facility to purchase partnership interests 
        from venture small business investment companies.
            ``(4) Bifurcation.--Losses to the Administration under this 
        section--
                    ``(A) shall not be offset by fees or any other 
                charges on licenses not authorized by the 
                Administration;
                    ``(B) shall be borne solely by the facility; and
                    ``(C) shall not be included in the calculation of 
                the subsidy rate under section 303(j).
    ``(c) Licensing Matters.--
            ``(1) In general.--A venture small business investment 
        company shall be licensed under section 301(c) and approved by 
        the Administrator to issue partnership interests.
            ``(2) Consideration.--In issuing a license under paragraph 
        (1), the Administrator shall take into consideration investment 
        risk through criteria set by the Administrator.
    ``(d) Required Investments.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as described in paragraph (2), a 
        venture small business investment company shall invest solely 
        in small business concerns.
            ``(2) Exception and waiver.--Notwithstanding section 
        310(c)(6) and subject to rules issued by the Administrator, a 
        venture small business investment company may invest equity 
        capital in venture capital funds if--
                    ``(A) such venture capital funds are majority 
                controlled by underrepresented individuals;
                    ``(B) not less than 50 percent of total capital of 
                each such venture capital fund is invested in covered 
                investments; and
                    ``(C) the venture small business investment company 
                provides annual assistance to the venture capital fund.
    ``(e) Partnership Interests.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator may, out of amounts 
        available in the facility, purchase partnership interests as 
        described in this subsection.
            ``(2) Issuance and purchase of partnership interests.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Administrator may purchase 
                venture equity securities issued by a venture small 
                business investment company in an amount that does not 
                exceed the lesser of 100 percent of the private capital 
                of the venture small business investment company or a 
                lesser amount to be determined by the Administrator.
            ``(3) Partnership interest terms.--A partnership interest 
        purchased by the Administrator from a venture small business 
        investment company under this subsection shall be subject to 
        such restrictions and limitations as the Administrator may 
        determine.''.
    (b) Emerging Managers Program.--
            (1) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Small Business 
        Administration for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
        Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $20,000,000, to remain 
        available until September 30, 2031, for carrying out this 
        subsection.
            (2) Establishment.--The Small Business Investment Act of 
        1958 (15 U.S.C. 661 et seq.), as amended by subsection (a), is 
        further amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 322. EMERGING MANAGERS PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Covered investments.--The term `covered investments' 
        has the meaning given in section 321.
            ``(2) Emerging manager company.--The term `emerging manager 
        company' means an investment management firm that is focused on 
        investing private equity that meets not less than 2 of the 
        following criteria:
                    ``(A) The partners of the firm have--
                            ``(i) an investment track record of less 
                        than 10 years of combined investment 
                        experience; or
                            ``(ii) a documented record of successful 
                        business experience.
                    ``(B) The firm has a focus on underserved markets.
                    ``(C) The firm is not less than 50 percent owned, 
                managed, or controlled by members of an 
                underrepresented community (as defined in section 50 of 
                the Small Business Act).
    ``(b) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish an emerging 
managers program pursuant to which managers with substantial experience 
in operating small business investment companies may enter into a 
written agreement approved by the Administrator to provide guidance and 
assistance to an applicant for a license for a small business 
investment company that is to be managed by an emerging manager 
company. The manager with substantial experience may hold a minority 
financial interest in the small business investment company that is to 
be managed by an emerging manager company.
    ``(c) Licensing.--An applicant described in subsection (b) shall 
apply with for a license under section 301(c) and shall--
            ``(1) have private capital not to exceed $100,000,000;
            ``(2) be managed by not less than two individuals;
            ``(3) be a second generation fund or earlier; and
            ``(4) focus its investment strategy on covered investments.
    ``(d) Waiver of Maximum Leverage.--The approval of a written 
agreement under subsection (b) by the Administrator shall operate as a 
waiver of the requirements of section 303(b)(2)(B) to the extent that 
such section would otherwise apply.
    ``(e) Increased Leverage Maximum.--An existing small business 
investment company that enters into a written agreement under 
subsection (b) that is approved by the Administrator may increase the 
maximum leverage cap of the company under section 303(b)(2)--
            ``(1) under subparagraph (A) of such section, with respect 
        to a single license, by not more than $17,500,000; and
            ``(2) under subparagraph (B) of such section, with respect 
        to multiple licenses under common control, by not more than 
        $35,000,000.''.

SEC. 100402. MICROCAP SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANY LICENSE.

    (a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Administration for fiscal year 2022, out 
of amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $40,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2031, to carry out paragraph (5) 
of section 301(c) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 
U.S.C. 681(c)), as added by subsection (b).
    (b) MicroCap Small Business Investment Company License.--Section 
301(c) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 681(c)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Microcap small business investment company license.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Administrator may issue a 
                number of licenses under this subsection to 
                applicants--
                            ``(i) that do not satisfy the qualification 
                        requirements under paragraph (3)(A)(ii) to the 
                        extent that such requirements relate to 
                        investment experience and track record, 
                        including any such requirements further set 
                        forth in section 107.305 of title 13, Code of 
                        Federal Regulations, or any successor 
                        regulation;
                            ``(ii) that would otherwise be issued a 
                        license under this subsection, except that the 
                        management of the applicant does not satisfy 
                        the requirements under paragraph (3)(A)(ii) to 
                        the extent that such requirements relate to 
                        investment experience and track record, 
                        including any such requirements further set 
                        forth in section 107.305 of title 13, Code of 
                        Federal Regulations, or any successor 
                        regulation;
                            ``(iii) for which the fund managers have--
                                    ``(I) a documented record of 
                                successful business experience;
                                    ``(II) a record of business 
                                management success; or
                                    ``(III) knowledge in the particular 
                                industry or business for which the 
                                applicant is pursuing an investment 
                                strategy; and
                            ``(iv) that have demonstrated appropriate 
                        qualifications for the license, based on 
                        factors determined by the Administrator.
                    ``(B) Required investments.--The licensee under 
                this paragraph shall invest not less than 50 percent of 
                the total financings of such licensee in covered 
                investments (as defined in section 321), of which not 
                more than 33 percent of such investments are in small 
                business concerns in infrastructure or manufacturing.
                    ``(C) Timing for issuance of license.--The 
                Administrator shall establish policies to ensure the 
                timely disposition and issuance of licenses under this 
                paragraph.
                    ``(D) Leverage.--A company licensed pursuant to 
                this paragraph shall--
                            ``(i) not be eligible to receive leverage 
                        in an amount that is more than $50,000,000; and
                            ``(ii) be able to access leverage in an 
                        amount that is not more than 200 percent of the 
                        private capital of the applicant.
                    ``(E) Investment committee.--If a company licensed 
                pursuant to this paragraph has investment committee 
                members or control persons who are principals approved 
                by the Administration or control persons of licensed 
                small business investment companies not licensed under 
                this paragraph, such licensee or licensees shall not be 
                deemed to be under common control with the company 
                licensed pursuant to this paragraph solely for the 
                purpose of section 303(b)(2)(B).
                    ``(F) Fees.--In addition to the fees authorized 
                under sections 301(e) and 310(b), the Administration 
                may prescribe fees to be paid by each company 
                designated to operate under this paragraph.''.

SEC. 100403. FUNDING FOR SBIC OUTREACH AND EDUCATION.

    (a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Small Business Administration for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$2,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, for carrying 
out this section.
    (b) Outreach and Education.--The Administrator shall develop and 
implement a program to promote to, conduct outreach to, and educate 
prospective licensees on the licensing procedures and other programs of 
small business investment companies under title III of the Small 
Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 681 et seq.).

SEC. 100404. SBIC WORKING GROUP.

    (a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Small Business Administration for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$2,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, to carry out 
this section.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``covered Members'' means the Chair and 
        Ranking Member of--
                    (A) the Committee on Small Business and 
                Entrepreneurship of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Small Business of the House of 
                Representatives;
            (2) the terms ``licensee'', ``small business investment 
        company'', and ``underlicensed State'' have the meanings given 
        those terms, respectively, in section 103 of the Small Business 
        Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662);
            (3) the term ``low-income community'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 45D(e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986;
            (4) the term ``member of an underrepresented community'' 
        has the meaning given in section 50 of the Small Business Act, 
        as added by section 10201 of this title.
            (5) the term ``underfinanced State'' means a State that has 
        below median financing, as determined by the Administrator; and
            (6) the term ``underserved community'' means--
                    (A) a HUBZone, as defined in section 31(b) of the 
                Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657a(b));
                    (B) a low-income community; or
                    (C) a low-income rural community.
    (c) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which 
the covered Members are required to submit to the Administrator a 
notification that the individuals selected by the covered Members under 
paragraph (1) have accepted those assignments, the Administrator shall 
establish a small business investment company Working Group (referred 
to in this section as the ``Working Group''), which shall--
            (1) consist of--
                    (A) 4 representatives--
                            (i) among general partners of licensees 
                        that have a demonstrated record of investing 
                        in--
                                    (I) low-income communities;
                                    (II) businesses primarily engaged 
                                in research and development;
                                    (III) manufacturers;
                                    (IV) businesses primarily owned or 
                                controlled by individuals in 
                                underserved communities before 
                                receiving capital from the licensee; 
                                and
                                    (V) low-income rural communities; 
                                and
                            (ii) of whom--
                                    (I) 1 shall be selected by the 
                                Chair of the Committee on Small 
                                Business and Entrepreneurship of the 
                                Senate;
                                    (II) 1 shall be selected by the 
                                Ranking Member of the Committee on 
                                Small Business and Entrepreneurship of 
                                the Senate;
                                    (III) 1 shall be selected by the 
                                Chair of the Committee on Small 
                                Business of the House of 
                                Representatives; and
                                    (IV) 1 shall be selected by the 
                                Ranking Member of the Committee on 
                                Small Business of the House of 
                                Representatives;
                    (B) 4 representatives--
                            (i) from licensees, of whom 1 shall be an 
                        owner of a small business investment company or 
                        fund manager that is located in--
                                    (I) a low-income community;
                                    (II) an underserved community;
                                    (III) a low-income rural community; 
                                or
                                    (IV) an underfinanced State; and
                            (ii) of whom--
                                    (I) 1 shall be selected by the 
                                Chair of the Committee on Small 
                                Business and Entrepreneurship of the 
                                Senate;
                                    (II) 1 shall be selected by the 
                                Ranking Member of the Committee on 
                                Small Business and Entrepreneurship of 
                                the Senate;
                                    (III) 1 shall be selected by the 
                                Chair of the Committee on Small 
                                Business of the House of 
                                Representatives; and
                                    (IV) 1 shall be selected by the 
                                Ranking Member of the Committee on 
                                Small Business of the House of 
                                Representatives;
                    (C) the Associate Administrator for the Office of 
                Investment and Innovation of the Administration, who 
                shall--
                            (i) serve as the Chair of the Working 
                        Group; and
                            (ii) select not more than 4 additional 
                        representatives from the Office of Investment 
                        and Innovation of the Administration to serve 
                        as representatives of the Working Group; and
                    (D) 4 representatives from the investment industry 
                or academia, or who are bank limited partners, with 
                expertise in developing and monitoring interventions to 
                expand the investment industry, of whom--
                            (i) 1 shall be selected by the Chair of the 
                        Committee on Small Business and 
                        Entrepreneurship of the Senate;
                            (ii) 1 shall be selected by the Ranking 
                        Member of the Committee on Small Business and 
                        Entrepreneurship of the Senate;
                            (iii) 1 shall be selected by the Chair of 
                        the Committee on Small Business of the House of 
                        Representatives; and
                            (iv) 1 shall be selected by the Ranking 
                        Member of the Committee on Small Business of 
                        the House of Representatives;
            (2) develop recommendations regarding how the Administrator 
        could increase the number of--
                    (A) applicants to become small business investment 
                companies, with a focus on management teams or 
                companies located in--
                            (i) low-income communities;
                            (ii) underserved communities; and
                            (iii) low-income rural communities; and
                    (B) investments made in underfinanced States;
            (3) develop recommendations for incentives for small 
        business investment companies to--
                    (A) invest and locate in underlicensed States and 
                underfinanced States; and
                    (B) invest in small business concerns, including 
                those owned and controlled by members of an 
                underrepresented community, small business concerns 
                owned and controlled by veterans, and small business 
                concerns owned and controlled by women; and
            (4) develop recommendations for metrics of success, and 
        benchmarks for success, with respect to the goals described in 
        this section.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date on which the 
Administrator establishes the Working Group under subsection (b), the 
Working Group shall submit to the Committee on Small Business and 
Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of 
the House of Representatives a report that includes--
            (1) the recommendations of the Working Group; and
            (2) a recommended plan and timeline for implementing the 
        recommendations described in paragraph (1).
    (e) Termination.--The Working Group shall terminate on the date on 
which the Working Group submits the report required under subsection 
(e).
