---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Subtitle A - Increasing Federal Contracting Opportunities for Small Businesses

## SEC. 100101. VETERAN FEDERAL PROCUREMENT ENTREPRENEURSHIP TRAINING 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Small Business Administration, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000 for each 
of fiscal years 2022 through 2028 for carrying out subsection (h) of 
section 32 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657b), as added by this 
section. Amounts appropriated by this subsection shall remain available 
for 3 fiscal years.
    (b) Establishment.--Section 32 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
657b) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Veteran Federal Procurement Entrepreneurship Training 
Program.--The Administrator, acting through the Associate 
Administrator, shall make grants to, or enter into cooperative 
agreements with nonprofit entities to operate a Federal procurement 
entrepreneurship training program to provide assistance to small 
business concerns owned and controlled by veterans regarding how to 
increase the likelihood of being awarded contracts with the Federal 
Government. A grant or cooperative agreement under this subsection--
            ``(1) shall be made to or entered into with nonprofit 
        entities that have a track record of successfully providing 
        educational and job training services to targeted veteran 
        populations from diverse locations;
            ``(2) shall include terms under which the nonprofit 
        entities may, at the discretion of the Administrator, be 
        required to match any Federal funds received for the program 
        with State, local, or private sector funds; and
            ``(3) shall include terms under which the nonprofit 
        entities shall use a diverse group of professional service 
        experts, such as Federal, State, and local contracting experts 
        and private sector industry experts with first-hand experience 
        in Federal Government contracting, to provide assistance to 
        small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans.''.

SEC. 100102. EXPANDING SURETY BOND PROGRAM.

    (a) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Small Business Administration for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, for 
additional capital for the fund established under section 412 of the 
Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 694c).
    (b) Expanding Surety Bond Program.--Part B of title IV of the Small 
Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 694a et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 411 (15 U.S.C. 694b)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``$6,500,000'' and inserting ``$10,000,000''; 
                        and
                            (ii) by amending subparagraph (B) to read 
                        as follows:
            ``(B) The Administrator may guarantee a surety under 
        subparagraph (A) for a total work order or contract entered 
        into by a Federal agency in an amount that does not exceed 
        $20,000,000.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e)(2), by striking 
                ``$6,500,000'' and inserting ``the amount described in 
                subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (a)(1), as 
                applicable''; and
            (2) in section 412 (15 U.S.C. 694c)--
                    (A) in subsection (a), in the third sentence, by 
                striking ``, excluding administrative expenses,'';
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection 
                (c); and
                    (C) by inserting after subsection (a) the 
                following:
    ``(b) Not more than 15 percent of the amount that is in the fund 
described in subsection (a) on the first day of each fiscal year may be 
obligated during that fiscal year to cover costs incurred by the 
Administration in connection with the management and administration of 
this part, including costs related to information technology and 
systems, personnel, outreach activities, and relevant contracts.''.

SEC. 100103. UPLIFT ACCELERATOR PROGRAM; BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT ACADEMY.

    (a) Uplift Accelerator Program.--
            (1) Appropriations.--
                    (A) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
                available, there is appropriated to the Small Business 
                Administration for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
                in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
                $1,000,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
                2031, to carry out subparagraph (K) of section 7(j)(10) 
                of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(j)(10)), as 
                added by this subsection; and
                    (B) Set aside.--Of amounts made available under 
                subparagraph (A), not more than 15 percent may be used 
                by the Administrator for administrative expenses and 
                costs related to monitoring and oversight.
            (2) Establishment.--Section 7(j)(10) of the Small Business 
        Act (15 U.S.C. 636(j)(10)) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
                    ``(K) Uplift accelerator program.--
                            ``(i) Definitions.--In this subparagraph:
                                    ``(I) Accelerator.--The term 
                                `accelerator' means an organization--
                                            ``(aa) that provides 
                                        mentorship and other support to 
                                        growing, startup, and newly 
                                        established small business 
                                        concerns; and
                                            ``(bb) offers startup 
                                        capital or the opportunity to 
                                        raise capital from outside 
                                        investors to growing, startup, 
                                        and newly established small 
                                        business concerns.
                                    ``(II) Eligible entity.--The term 
                                `eligible entity' means--
                                            ``(aa) a historically black 
                                        college or university;
                                            ``(bb) an institution of 
                                        higher education, as defined in 
                                        section 101 of the Higher 
                                        Education Act of 1965, which 
                                        primarily educates students who 
                                        are Black or African American, 
                                        Hispanic or Latino, American 
                                        Indian, Alaska Native, Asian, 
                                        Native Hawaiian, or other 
                                        Pacific Islander; or
                                            ``(cc) a junior or 
                                        community college, as defined 
                                        in section 312 of the Higher 
                                        Education Act of 1965.
                                    ``(III) Eligible small business 
                                concern.--The term `eligible small 
                                business concern' means a small 
                                business concern--
                                            ``(aa) located in a 
                                        HUBZone, as defined in section 
                                        31(b);
                                            ``(bb) owned and controlled 
                                        by a resident of a low-income 
                                        community, as defined in 
                                        section 45D(e) of the Internal 
                                        Revenue Code of 1986;
                                            ``(cc) owned and controlled 
                                        by a resident of a low-income 
                                        rural community;
                                            ``(dd) owned and controlled 
                                        by a member of an Indian or 
                                        Alaska Native tribe, band, 
                                        nation, pueblo, village, 
                                        community, component band, or 
                                        component reservation, 
                                        individually identified 
                                        (including parenthetically) in 
                                        the most recent list published 
                                        pursuant to section 104 of the 
                                        Federally Recognized Indian 
                                        Tribe List Act of 1994;
                                            ``(ee) owned and controlled 
                                        by a Native Entity;
                                            ``(ff) owned and controlled 
                                        by an individual with a 
                                        disability, as defined in 
                                        section 3 of the Americans with 
                                        Disabilities Act of 1990; or
                                            ``(gg) otherwise identified 
                                        by the Administrator.
                                    ``(IV) Historically black college 
                                or university.--The term `historically 
                                black college or university' means a 
                                `part B institution', as defined under 
                                section 322 of the Higher Education Act 
                                of 1965.
                                    ``(V) Incubator.--The term 
                                `incubator' means an organization--
                                            ``(aa) that provides 
                                        mentorship and other support to 
                                        growing, startup, and 
                                        established small business 
                                        concerns; and
                                            ``(bb) that may provide a 
                                        co-working environment or a 
                                        month-to-month lease program.
                                    ``(VI) Native entity.--The term 
                                `Native Entity' means--
                                            ``(aa) an Indian tribe, 
                                        including an Alaska Native 
                                        village or Regional or Village 
                                        Corporation, as defined in 
                                        section 4 of the Indian Self-
                                        Determination and Education 
                                        Assistance Act; and
                                            ``(bb) a Native Hawaiian 
                                        organization, as that term is 
                                        defined in section 6207 of the 
                                        Elementary and Secondary 
                                        Education Act of 1965.
                            ``(ii) Use of funds.--The Administrator is 
                        authorized to establish a competitive grant 
                        program to make grants to eligible entities to 
                        establish accelerators or incubators to support 
                        eligible small business concerns in 
                        developing--
                                    ``(I) business readiness, including 
                                by providing services such as 
                                accounting, organization, human 
                                resources, and legal assistance;
                                    ``(II) growth readiness, including 
                                assistance to build past performance 
                                and relationships with prime 
                                contractors;
                                    ``(III) readiness to submit bids 
                                for prime contracts, including 
                                assistance in developing skills, 
                                conducting market research, and 
                                drafting capability statements and 
                                proposals; or
                                    ``(IV) global readiness, including 
                                assistance in establishing long-term, 
                                additional revenue streams outside of 
                                the United States.
                            ``(iii) Acquisition authorities.--The 
                        Administrator shall identify acquisition 
                        authorities under which eligible small business 
                        concerns assisted under this subparagraph may 
                        enter into contracts or agreements with Federal 
                        agencies.
                            ``(iv) Amount.--During the period beginning 
                        on the date of the enactment of this 
                        subparagraph and ending not later than 10 years 
                        after such date, the Administrator shall award 
                        not more than an aggregate total of 
                        $1,000,000,000 in grants to eligible entities 
                        under this subparagraph.''.
    (b) Business Development Academy.--
            (1) Appropriations.--
                    (A) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
                available, there is appropriated to the Small Business 
                Administration for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
                in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
                $725,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
                2031, to carry out subparagraph (L) of section 7(j)(10) 
                of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(j)(10)), as 
                added by this subsection.
                    (B) Set aside.--Of amounts made available under 
                subparagraph (A), not more than 15 percent may be used 
                by the Administrator for administrative expenses and 
                costs related to monitoring and oversight.
            (2) Establishment.--Section 7(j)(10) of the Small Business 
        Act (15 U.S.C. 636(j)(10)), as amended by subsection (a), is 
        further amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(L) Business development academy.--
                            ``(i) Definition of eligible entity.--In 
                        this paragraph, the term `eligible entity' has 
                        the meaning given in subparagraph (K)(i).
                            ``(ii) Use of funds.--The Administrator is 
                        authorized to establish a competitive grant 
                        program to make grants to eligible entities to 
                        support Program Participants.
                            ``(iii) Duties of eligible entities.--An 
                        eligible entity that receives a grant under 
                        this subparagraph shall use such grant to--
                                    ``(I) develop and establish a 
                                foundational 12-month executive 
                                mentoring and training program for 
                                small business concerns described in 
                                clause (ii);
                                    ``(II) recruit and enroll 
                                participants in the program described 
                                in subclause (I), including by 
                                providing incentives for participation;
                                    ``(III) develop certification 
                                programs for eligible entities based on 
                                proven best practices of the 
                                Administration; and
                                    ``(IV) conduct research into the 
                                effectiveness of the program described 
                                in clause (iv)(I).
                            ``(iv) Amount.--During the period beginning 
                        on the date of the enactment of this 
                        subparagraph and ending not later than 10 years 
                        after such date, the Administrator shall award 
                        not more than an aggregate total of 
                        $725,000,000 in grants to eligible entities 
                        under this subparagraph.''.

SEC. 100104. PATHWAY TO PRIME GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Small Business 
        Administration for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
        Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until 
        September 30, 2031--
                    (A) $75,000,000 to carry out subsection (b)(1) of 
                section 49 of the Small Business Act, as added by 
                subsection (b); and
                    (B) $450,000,000 to carry out subsection (b)(2) of 
                section 49 of the Small Business Act, as added by 
                subsection (b).
            (2) Set aside.--Of the amount made available to carry out 
        this section for any fiscal year, not more than 15 percent may 
        be used by the Administrator for administrative expenses.
    (b) Establishment.--The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.) 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating section 49 (15 U.S.C. 631 note) as 
        section 55; and
            (2) by inserting after section 48 the following:

``SEC. 49. PATHWAY TO PRIME GRANT PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' means--
                    ``(A) a historically black college or university; 
                or
                    ``(B) an institution of higher education, as 
                defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 
                1965, which primarily educates students who are Black 
                or African American, Hispanic or Latino, American 
                Indian, Alaska Native, Asian, Native Hawaiian, or other 
                Pacific Islander.
            ``(2) Historically black college or university.--The term 
        `historically black college or university' has the meaning 
        given the term `part B institution' under section 322 of the 
        Higher Education Act of 1965.
            ``(3) Pathway firm.--The term `pathway firm' means a small 
        business concern that is--
                    ``(A) a subcontractor of the Federal Government;
                    ``(B) a contractor or subcontractor of a State, 
                local, or tribal government, including such contractor 
                or subcontractor for a project funded by the CARES Act 
                (Public Law 116-136), the American Rescue Plan Act of 
                2021 (Public Law 117-2), or an Act providing funds for 
                infrastructure that is enacted during the 117th 
                Congress (as determined by the Administrator).
    ``(b) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a program 
to assist pathway firms to become prime contractors of the Federal 
Government by--
            ``(1) making competitive grants to eligible entities to 
        establish a national contracting and subcontracting network and 
        database of pathway firms and grantees under paragraph (2) to 
        track and connect pathway firms with Federal prime contracting 
        opportunities based on the record of the pathway firm in 
        competing for and obtaining--
                    ``(A) prime contracts or contracts with Federal, 
                State, local, or tribal governments;
                    ``(B) subcontracts with Federal prime contractors; 
                and
                    ``(C) subcontracts from State, local, or tribal 
                governments participating in projects funded by the 
                CARES Act (Public Law 116-136), the American Rescue 
                Plan Act of 2021 (Public Law 117-2), or an Act 
                providing funds for infrastructure that is enacted 
                during the 117th Congress (as determined by the 
                Administrator; and
            ``(2) making competitive grants to not fewer than 20 State 
        or local governments or federally recognized Tribal governments 
        to--
                    ``(A) participate in the national small business 
                contracting network established in paragraph (1); and
                    ``(B) assist pathway firms within the geographic 
                regions served by those governments.
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--A recipient of a grant made under this section 
shall--
            ``(1) provide resources to enable pathway firms to gain the 
        experience and capabilities necessary to compete for and obtain 
        prime contracts;
            ``(2) facilitate engagement between pathway firms and 
        Federal, State, local, or tribal governments;
            ``(3) work with the Administration to ensure that prime 
        contractors with subcontracting plans under section 8(d) meet 
        the requirements of those plans;
            ``(4) work with the Administration to maximize 
        opportunities for small business concerns to obtaining 
        subcontracts from State, local, or tribal governments 
        participating in projects funded by the CARES Act (Public Law 
        116-136), the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (Public Law 117-
        2), or an Act providing funds for infrastructure that is 
        enacted during the 117th Congress (as determined by the 
        Administrator); and
            ``(5) make publicly available data to advocate for best 
        practices and policies that promote small business concerns as 
        prime contractors of the Federal Government.''.
