---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Part 2 - Tax Increases For High-Income Individuals

## SEC. 138201. INCREASE IN TOP MARGINAL INDIVIDUAL INCOME TAX RATE.

    (a) Re-establishment of 39.6 Percent Rate Bracket.--
            (1) Married individuals filing joint returns and surviving 
        spouses.--The table contained in section 1(j)(2)(A) is amended 
        by striking the last two rows and inserting the following: ``

    ``Over $400,000 but not over 
        $450,000.
                                        $91,379, plus 35% of the excess 
                                                over $400,000
    Over $450,000..................
                                        $108,879, plus 39.6% of the 
                                                excess over 
                                                $450,000.''.

            (2) Heads of households.--The table contained in section 
        1(j)(2)(B) is amended by striking the last two rows and 
        inserting the following: ``

    ``Over $200,000 but not over 
        $425,000.
                                        $44,298, plus 35% of the excess 
                                                over $200,000
    Over $425,000..................
                                        $123,048, plus 39.6% of the 
                                                excess over 
                                                $425,000.''.

            (3) Unmarried individuals other than surviving spouses and 
        heads of households.--The table contained in section 1(j)(2)(C) 
        is amended by striking the last two rows and inserting the 
        following: ``

    ``Over $200,000 but not over 
        $400,000.
                                        $45,689.50, plus 35% of the 
                                                excess over $200,000
    Over $400,000..................
                                        $115,689.50, plus 39.6% of the 
                                                excess over 
                                                $400,000.''.

            (4) Married individuals filing separate returns.--The table 
        contained in section 1(j)(2)(D) is amended by striking the last 
        two rows and inserting the following: ``

    ``Over $200,000 but not over 
        $225,000.
                                        $45,689.50, plus 35% of the 
                                                excess over $200,000
    Over $225,000..................
                                        $54,439.50, plus 39.6% of the 
                                                excess over 
                                                $225,000.''.

            (5) Estates and trusts.--The table contained in section 
        1(j)(2)(E) is amended by striking the last row and inserting 
        the following: ``

    ``Over $12,500.................
                                        $3,011.50, plus 39.6% of the 
                                                excess over $12,500.''.

    (b) Application of Adjustments.--Section 1(j)(3) is amended to read 
as follows:
            ``(3) Adjustments.--For taxable years beginning after 
        December 31, 2021, the Secretary shall prescribe tables which 
        shall apply in lieu of the tables contained in paragraph (2) in 
        the same manner as under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection 
        (f) (applied without regard to clauses (i) and (ii) of 
        subsection (f)(2)(A), except that in prescribing such tables--
                    ``(A) except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
                subsection (f)(3) shall be applied by substituting 
                `calendar year 2017' for `calendar year 2016' in 
                subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof,
                    ``(B) in the case of adjustments to the dollar 
                amounts at which the 39.6 percent rate bracket begins 
                (other than such dollar amount in paragraph (2)(E))--
                            ``(i) no adjustment shall be made for 
                        taxable years beginning after December 31, 
                        2021, and before January 1, 2023, and
                            ``(ii) in the case of any taxable year 
                        beginning after December 31, 2022, subsection 
                        (f)(3) shall be applied by substituting 
                        `calendar year 2021' for `calendar year 2016',
                    ``(C) subsection (f)(7)(B) shall apply to any 
                unmarried individual other than a surviving spouse, and
                    ``(D) subsection (f)(8) shall not apply.''.
    (c) Modification to 39.6 Percent Rate Bracket for High-income 
Taxpayers After 2025.--Section 1(i)(3) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(3) Modifications to 39.6 percent rate bracket.--In the 
        case of taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025--
                    ``(A) In general.--The rate of tax under 
                subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) on a taxpayer's 
                taxable income in excess of the 39.6 percent rate 
                bracket threshold shall be taxed at a rate of 39.6 
                percent.
                    ``(B) 39.6 percent rate bracket threshold.--For 
                purposes of this paragraph, the term `39.6 percent rate 
                bracket threshold' means--
                            ``(i) in the case any taxpayer described in 
                        subsection (a), $450,000,
                            ``(ii) in the case of any taxpayer 
                        described in subsection (b), $425,000,
                            ``(iii) in the case of any taxpayer 
                        described in subsection (c), $400,000, and
                            ``(iv) in the case of any taxpayer 
                        described in subsection (d), $225,000.
                    ``(C) Inflation adjustment.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, with respect to taxable years beginning in 
                calendar years after 2025, each of the dollar amounts 
                in subparagraph (B) shall be adjusted in the same 
                manner as under paragraph (1)(C)(i), except that 
                subsection (f)(3)(A)(ii) shall be applied by 
                substituting `2021' for `2016'.''.
    (d) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 1(j)(1) is amended by striking ``December 31, 
        2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.
            (2) The heading of section 1(j) is amended by striking 
        ``2018'' and inserting ``2022''.
            (3) The heading of section 1(i) is amended by striking 
        ``Rate Reductions'' and inserting ``Modifications''
            (4) Section 15(f) is amended by striking ``rate 
        reductions'' and inserting ``modifications''.
    (e) Section 15 Not to Apply.--For rules providing that section 15 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 does not apply to the amendments 
made by this section, see sections 1(j)(6) and 15(f) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138202. INCREASE IN CAPITAL GAINS RATE FOR CERTAIN HIGH INCOME 
              INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1(h)(1)(D) is amended by striking ``20 
percent'' and inserting ``25 percent''.
    (b) Re-alignment of 25 Percent Capital Gains Rate Threshold With 
39.6 Percent Income Tax Rate Threshold.--Section 1(j)(5) is amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) and inserting the 
        following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(A) In general.--Section 1(h)(1) shall be applied 
                by substituting `below the maximum zero rate amount' 
                for `which would (without regard to this paragraph) be 
                taxed at a rate below 25 percent' in subparagraph 
                (B)(i).
                    ``(B) Maximum zero rate amount defined.--For 
                purposes of applying section 1(h) with the 
                modifications described in subparagraph (A), the 
                maximum zero rate amount shall be--
                            ``(i) in the case of a joint return or 
                        surviving spouse, $77,200,
                            ``(ii) in the case of an individual who is 
                        a head of household (as defined in section 
                        2(b)), $51,700,
                            ``(iii) in the case of any other individual 
                        (other than an estate or trust), an amount 
                        equal to \1/2\ of the amount in effect for the 
                        taxable year under subclause (I), and
                            ``(iv) in the case of an estate or trust, 
                        $2,600.'', and
            (2) by striking ``each of the dollar amounts in clauses (i) 
        and (ii)'' in subparagraph (C) and inserting ``each dollar 
        amount in clause (i), (ii), or (iv)''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 55(b)(3) is amended by striking subparagraph 
        (D) and redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (D).
            (2) The following provisions are each amended by striking 
        ``20 percent'' and inserting ``25 percent'':
                    (A) Section 531.
                    (B) Section 541.
                    (C) Section 1445(e)(1).
                    (D) Section 1445(e)(6).
                    (E) The second sentence of section 7518(g)(6)(A).
            (3) Section 53511(f)(2) of title 46, United States Code, is 
        amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) Maximum tax rate.--For that portion of a nonqualified 
        withdrawal made from the capital gain account during a taxable 
        year to which section 1(h) of such Code (26 U.S.C. 1(h)) 
        applies, the tax rate used under paragraph (1)(B) may not 
        exceed 25 percent.''.
    (d) Section 15 Not to Apply.--The amendments made by this section 
shall not be treated as a change in a rate of tax for purposes of 
section 15 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
    (e) Effective Dates.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the amendments made by this section shall apply to 
        taxable years ending after September 13, 2021.
            (2) Re-alignment of 25 percent capital gains rate threshold 
        with 39.6 percent income tax rate threshold.--The amendments 
        made by subsection (b) shall apply to taxable years beginning 
        after December 31, 2021.
            (3) Withholding under sections 1445 and 1446.--The 
        amendments made by subparagraphs (C) and (D) of subsection 
        (c)(2) shall apply to dispositions after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
    (f) Transitional Rules for Taxable Years Which Include September 
13, 2021.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of applying section 1(h) of 
        the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 with respect to any taxable 
        year which includes September 13, 2021, the amount determined 
        under subparagraph (D) of section 1(h)(1) of such Code shall be 
        the sum of--
                    (A) 20 percent of the lesser of--
                            (i) the amount on which a tax is determined 
                        under such subparagraph (D) (without regard to 
                        this subsection), or
                            (ii) the amount (if any) of net capital 
                        gain determined by taking into account only 
                        dividends, gains, and losses for the portion of 
                        the taxable year on or before September 13, 
                        2021 (determined without regard to collectibles 
                        gain or loss, gain described in section 
                        1(h)(6)(A)(i) of such Code, and section 1202 
                        gain), plus--
                    (B) 25 percent of the excess (if any) of the amount 
                described in subparagraph (A)(i) over the amount 
                described in subparagraph (A)(ii).
            (2) Special rule for binding contracts entered into prior 
        to september 13, 2021.--For purposes of paragraph (1), a gain 
        recognized in the taxable year that includes September 13, 
        2021, shall be treated as being with respect to the portion of 
        such taxable year on or before such date if such gain arises 
        from a transaction which occurs pursuant to a written binding 
        contract entered into on or before such date (and which is not 
        modified thereafter in any material respect).
            (3) Alternative minimum tax.--Rules similar to the rules of 
        paragraph (1) shall apply for purposes of applying section 
        55(b)(3) of such Code.
            (4) Application to pass-thru entities.--In applying this 
        subsection with respect to any pass-thru entity, the 
        determination of when dividends, gains, and losses are properly 
        taken into account shall be made at the entity level.
            (5) Definitions of certain terms.--Terms used in this 
        subsection which are also used in section 1(h) of such Code 
        shall have the respective meanings that such terms have in such 
        section.

SEC. 138203. APPLICATION OF NET INVESTMENT INCOME TAX TO TRADE OR 
              BUSINESS INCOME OF CERTAIN HIGH INCOME INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1411 is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(f) Application to Certain High Income Individuals.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of any individual whose 
        modified adjusted gross income for the taxable year exceeds the 
        high income threshold amount, subsection (a)(1) shall be 
        applied by substituting `the greater of specified net income or 
        net investment income' for `net investment income' in 
        subparagraph (A) thereof.
            ``(2) Phase-in of increase.--The increase in the tax 
        imposed under subsection (a)(1) by reason of the application of 
        paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not exceed the amount 
        which bears the same ratio to the amount of such increase 
        (determined without regard to this paragraph) as--
                    ``(A) the excess described in paragraph (1), bears 
                to
                    ``(B) $100,000 (\1/2\ such amount in the case of a 
                married taxpayer (as defined in section 7703) filing a 
                separate return).
            ``(3) High income threshold amount.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `high income threshold amount' means--
                    ``(A) except as provided in subparagraph (B) or 
                (C), $400,000,
                    ``(B) in the case of a taxpayer making a joint 
                return under section 6013 or a surviving spouse (as 
                defined in section 2(a)), $500,000, and
                    ``(C) in the case of a married taxpayer (as defined 
                in section 7703) filing a separate return, \1/2\ of the 
                dollar amount determined under subparagraph (B).
            ``(4) Specified net income.--For purposes of this section, 
        the term `specified net income' means net investment income 
        determined--
                    ``(A) without regard to the phrase `other than such 
                income which is derived in the ordinary course of a 
                trade or business not described in paragraph (2),' in 
                subsection (c)(1)(A)(i),
                    ``(B) without regard to the phrase `described in 
                paragraph (2)' in subsection (c)(1)(A)(ii),
                    ``(C) without regard to the phrase `other than 
                property held in a trade or business not described in 
                paragraph (2)' in subsection (c)(1)(A)(iii),
                    ``(D) without regard to paragraphs (2), (3), and 
                (4) of subsection (c), and
                    ``(E) by treating paragraphs (5) and (6) of section 
                469(c) as applying for purposes of subsection (c) of 
                this section.''.
    (b) Application to Trusts and Estates.--Section 1411(a)(2)(A) is 
amended by striking ``undistributed net investment income'' and 
inserting ``the greater of undistributed specified net income or 
undistributed net investment income''.
    (c) Clarifications With Respect to Determination of Net Investment 
Income.--
            (1) Wages subject to fica not taken into account.--Section 
        1411(c)(6) is amended by inserting ``or wages received with 
        respect to employment on which a tax is imposed under section 
        3101(b)'' before the period at the end.
            (2) Net operating losses not taken into account.--Section 
        1411(c)(1)(B) is amended by inserting ``(other than section 
        172)'' after ``this subtitle''.
            (3) Inclusion of certain foreign income.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 1411(c)(1)(A) is amended 
                by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (ii), by 
                striking ``over'' at the end of clause (iii) and 
                inserting ``and'', and by adding at the end the 
                following new clause:
                            ``(iv) any amount includible in gross 
                        income under section 951, 951A, 1293, or 1296, 
                        over''.
                    (B) Proper treatment of certain previously taxed 
                income.--Section 1411(c) is amended by adding at the 
                end the following new paragraph:
            ``(7) Certain previously taxed income.--The Secretary shall 
        issue regulations or other guidance providing for the treatment 
        of distributions of amounts previously included in gross income 
        for purposes of chapter 1 but not previously subject to tax 
        under this section.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.
    (e) Transition Rule.--The regulations or other guidance issued by 
the Secretary under section 1411(c)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (as added by this section) shall include provisions which provide 
for the proper coordination and application of clauses (i) and (iv) of 
section 1411(c)(1)(A) with respect to--
            (1) taxable years beginning on or before December 31, 2021, 
        and
            (2) taxable years beginning after such date.

SEC. 138204. LIMITATION ON DEDUCTION OF QUALIFIED BUSINESS INCOME FOR 
              CERTAIN HIGH INCOME INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) In General.--Section 199A(a) is amended by striking ``or'' at 
the end of paragraph (1), by striking the period at the end of 
paragraph (2) and inserting ``, or'', and by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(3) the following amount:
                    ``(A) $500,000 in the case of a joint return or 
                surviving spouse (as defined in section 2(a)),
                    ``(B) $400,000 in the case of any taxpayer not 
                described in subparagraph (A), (C), or (D),
                    ``(C) $250,000 in the case of a married individual 
                filing a separate return, or
                    ``(D) $10,000 in the case of an estate or trust.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138205. LIMITATIONS ON EXCESS BUSINESS LOSSES OF NONCORPORATE 
              TAXPAYERS.

    (a) Limitation Made Permanent.--
            (1) In general.--Section 461(l)(1) is amended to read as 
        follows:
            ``(1) Limitation.--In the case of any taxpayer other than a 
        corporation, any excess business loss of the taxpayer for the 
        taxable year shall not be allowed.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 461 is amended by 
        striking subsection (j).
    (b) Modification of Carryover of Disallowed Losses.--Section 
461(l)(2) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) Disallowed loss carryover.--Any loss which is 
        disallowed under paragraph (1) for any taxable year shall be 
        treated (solely for purposes of this chapter) as a deduction 
        described in paragraph (3)(A)(i) for the next taxable year.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020.

SEC. 138206. SURCHARGE ON HIGH INCOME INDIVIDUALS, ESTATES, AND TRUSTS.

    (a) In General.--Part I of subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by 
inserting after section 1 the following new section:

``SEC. 1A. SURCHARGE ON HIGH INCOME INDIVIDUALS, ESTATES, AND TRUSTS.

    ``(a) General Rule.--In the case of a taxpayer other than a 
corporation, there is hereby imposed (in addition to any other tax 
imposed by this subtitle) a tax equal to 3 percent of so much of the 
modified adjusted gross income of the taxpayer as exceeds--
            ``(1) $5,000,000, in the case of any taxpayer not described 
        in paragraph (2) or (3),
            ``(2) $2,500,000, in the case of a married individual 
        filing a separate return, and
            ``(3) $100,000, in the case of an estate or trust.
    ``(b) Modified Adjusted Gross Income.--For purposes of this 
section, the term `modified adjusted gross income' means adjusted gross 
income reduced by any deduction (not taken into account in determining 
adjusted gross income) allowed for investment interest (as defined in 
section 163(d)). In the case of an estate or trust, adjusted gross 
income shall be determined as provided in section 67(e).
    ``(c) Special Rules.--
            ``(1) Nonresident alien.--In the case of a nonresident 
        alien individual, only amounts taken into account in connection 
        with the tax imposed under section 871(b) shall be taken into 
        account under this section.
            ``(2) Citizens and residents living abroad.--The dollar 
        amount applicable to any taxpayer under paragraph (1), (2), or 
        (3) of subsection (a) (as the case may be) shall be decreased 
        (but not below zero) by the excess (if any) of--
                    ``(A) the amounts excluded from the taxpayer's 
                gross income under section 911, over
                    ``(B) the amounts of any deductions or exclusions 
                disallowed under section 911(d)(6) with respect to the 
                amounts described in subparagraph (A).
            ``(3) Charitable trusts.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to 
        a trust all the unexpired interests in which are devoted to one 
        or more of the purposes described in section 170(c)(2)(B).
            ``(4) Not treated as tax imposed by this chapter for 
        certain purposes.--The tax imposed under this section shall not 
        be treated as tax imposed by this chapter for purposes of 
        determining the amount of any credit under this chapter or for 
        purposes of section 55.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for part I of 
subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 1 the following new item:

``Sec. 1A. Surcharge on high income individuals.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138207. TERMINATION OF TEMPORARY INCREASE IN UNIFIED CREDIT.

    (a) In General.--Section 2010(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 is amended by striking subparagraph (C).
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to estates of decedents dying and gifts made after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138208. INCREASE IN LIMITATION ON ESTATE TAX VALUATION REDUCTION 
              FOR CERTAIN REAL PROPERTY USED IN FARMING OR OTHER TRADES 
              OR BUSINESSES.

    (a) In General.--Section 2032A(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 is amended by striking ``$750,000'' and inserting 
``$11,700,000''.
    (b) Inflation Adjustment.--Section 2032A(a)(3) of such Code is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``$750,000'' both places it appears and 
        inserting ``$11,700,000'',
            (2) by striking ``1998'' in the matter preceding 
        subparagraph (A) and inserting ``2021'', and
            (3) by striking ``1997'' in subparagraph (B) and inserting 
        ``2020''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to the estates of decedents dying after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138209. CERTAIN TAX RULES APPLICABLE TO GRANTOR TRUSTS.

    (a) Application of Transfer Taxes.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle B of the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new chapter:

             ``CHAPTER 16--SPECIAL RULES FOR GRANTOR TRUSTS

``Sec. 2901. Application of transfer taxes.

``SEC. 2901. APPLICATION OF TRANSFER TAXES.

    ``(a) In General.--In the case of any portion of a trust with 
respect to which the grantor is the deemed owner--
            ``(1) the value of the gross estate of the deceased deemed 
        owner of such portion shall include all assets attributable to 
        that portion at the time of the death of such owner,
            ``(2) any distribution (other than to the deemed owner or 
        the deemed owner's spouse) from such portion to one or more 
        beneficiaries during the life of the deemed owner of such 
        portion (other than in discharge of an obligation of the deemed 
        owner) shall be treated as a transfer by gift for purposes of 
        chapter 12,
            ``(3) if at any time during the life of the deemed owner of 
        such portion, such owner ceases to be treated as the owner of 
        such portion under subpart E of part 1 of subchapter J of 
        chapter 1, all assets attributable to such portion at such time 
        shall be treated for purposes of chapter 12 as a transfer by 
        gift made by the deemed owner, and
            ``(4) proper adjustment shall be made with respect to 
        amounts so included in the gross estate, or treated as 
        transferred by gift, pursuant to paragraph (1), (2), or (3), as 
        the case may be, to account for amounts treated previously as 
        taxable gifts under chapter 12 with respect to previous 
        transfers to the trust by the deemed owner.
    ``(b) Exceptions.--This section shall not apply to any trust that 
is includible in the gross estate of the deemed owner (without regard 
to subsection (a)(1)).
    ``(c) Deemed Owner Defined.--For purposes of this chapter, the term 
`deemed owner' means any person who is treated as the owner of a 
portion of a trust under subpart E of part 1 of subchapter J of chapter 
1.''.
            (2) Cross-reference.--Section 2511 of such Code is amended 
        by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Cross-reference.--For treatment of transfers to grantor 
trusts, see section 2901.''.
            (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of chapters for subtitle 
        B of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following 
        new item:

           ``Chapter 16. Special Rules for Grantor Trusts''.

    (b) Certain Sales to Grantor Trust.--
            (1) In general.--Part IV of subchapter O of chapter 1 of 
        such Code is amended by redesignating section 1062 as section 
        1063 and inserting after section 1061 the following new 
        section:

``SEC. 1062. CERTAIN SALES BETWEEN GRANTOR TRUST AND DEEMED OWNER.

    ``(a) In General.--In the case of any transfer of property between 
a trust and the a person who is the deemed owner of the trust (or 
portion thereof), such treatment of the person as the owner of the 
trust shall be disregarded in determining whether the transfer is a 
sale or exchange for purposes of this chapter.
    ``(b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to any trust that 
is fully revocable by the deemed owner.
    ``(c) Deemed Owner.--For purposes of this section, the term `deemed 
owner' means any person who is treated as the owner of a portion of a 
trust under subpart E of part 1 of subchapter J.''.
            (2) Related taxpayers.--Section 267(b) is amended by 
        striking ``or'' at the end of paragraph (12), by striking the 
        period at the end of paragraph (13) and inserting ``; or'', and 
        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(14) A grantor trust and the person treated as the owner 
        of the trust (or portion thereof) under subpart E of part 1 of 
        subchapter J of this chapter.''.
            (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for part IV 
        of subchapter O of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by 
        striking the item relating to section 1062 and inserting the 
        following new items:

``Sec. 1062. Certain sales to grantor trusts.
``Sec. 1063. Cross references.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply--
            (1) to trusts created on or after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, and
            (2) to any portion of a trust established before the date 
        of the enactment of this Act which is attributable to a 
        contribution made on or after such date.

SEC. 138210. VALUATION RULES FOR CERTAIN TRANSFERS OF NONBUSINESS 
              ASSETS.

    (a) In General.--Section 2031 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (f) and by 
inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsections:
    ``(d) Valuation Rules for Certain Transfers of Nonbusiness 
Assets.--For purposes of this chapter and chapter 12--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of the transfer of any 
        interest in an entity other than an interest which is actively 
        traded (within the meaning of section 1092)--
                    ``(A) the value of any nonbusiness assets held by 
                the entity with respect to such interest shall be 
                determined as if the transferor had transferred such 
                assets directly to the transferee (and no valuation 
                discount shall be allowed with respect to such 
                nonbusiness assets), and
                    ``(B) such nonbusiness assets shall not be taken 
                into account in determining the value of the interest 
                in the entity.
            ``(2) Nonbusiness assets.--For purposes of this 
        subsection--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `nonbusiness asset' 
                means any passive asset which--
                            ``(i) is held for the production or 
                        collection of income, and
                            ``(ii) is not used in the active conduct of 
                        a trade or business.
                    ``(B) Passive assets used in active conduct of 
                trade or business.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (C), a passive asset shall not be treated for purposes 
                of subparagraph (A) as used in the active conduct of a 
                trade or business unless--
                            ``(i) the asset is property described in 
                        paragraph (1) or (4) of section 1221(a) or is a 
                        hedge with respect to such property, or
                            ``(ii) the asset is real property used in 
                        the active conduct of 1 or more real property 
                        trades or businesses (within the meaning of 
                        section 469(c)(7)(C)) in which the transferor 
                        materially participates and with respect to 
                        which the transferor meets the requirements of 
                        section 469(c)(7)(B)(ii).
                For purposes of clause (ii), material participation 
                shall be determined under the rules of section 469(h), 
                except that section 469(h)(3) shall be applied without 
                regard to the limitation to farming activity.
                    ``(C) Exception for working capital.--Any passive 
                asset which is held as a part of the reasonably 
                required working capital needs of a trade or business 
                shall be treated as used in the active conduct of a 
                trade or business.
            ``(3) Passive asset.--For purposes of this subsection, the 
        term `passive asset' means any--
                    ``(A) cash or cash equivalents,
                    ``(B) except to the extent provided by the 
                Secretary, stock in a corporation or any other equity, 
                profits, or capital interest in a partnership,
                    ``(C) evidence of indebtedness, option, forward or 
                futures contract, notional principal contract, or 
                derivative,
                    ``(D) asset described in clause (iii), (iv), or (v) 
                of section 351(e)(1)(B),
                    ``(E) annuity,
                    ``(F) real property,
                    ``(G) asset (other than a patent, trademark, or 
                copyright) which produces royalty income,
                    ``(H) commodity,
                    ``(I) collectible (within the meaning of section 
                408(m)),
                    ``(J) personal property (as defined in section 
                1092(d)(1)) or position in personal property (within 
                the meaning of section 1092(d)(2)), or
                    ``(K) other asset specified in regulations 
                prescribed by the Secretary.
            ``(4) Look-thru rules.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If a passive asset of an entity 
                consists of a 10-percent interest in any other entity, 
                this subsection shall be applied by disregarding the 
                10-percent interest and by treating the entity as 
                holding directly its ratable share of the assets of the 
                other entity. This subparagraph shall be applied 
                successively to any 10-percent interest of such other 
                entity in any other entity.
                    ``(B) 10-percent interest.--The term `10-percent 
                interest' means--
                            ``(i) in the case of an interest in a 
                        corporation, ownership of at least 10 percent 
                        (by vote or value) of the stock in such 
                        corporation,
                            ``(ii) in the case of an interest in a 
                        partnership, ownership of at least 10 percent 
                        of the capital or profits interest in the 
                        partnership, and
                            ``(iii) in any other case, ownership of at 
                        least 10 percent of the beneficial interests in 
                        the entity.
                For purposes of the preceding sentence, the rules 
                prescribed by section 318(a) shall apply.
            ``(5) Coordination with subsection (b).--Subsection (b) 
        shall apply after the application of this subsection.
            ``(6) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such 
        regulations or other guidance as the Secretary determines is 
        necessary or appropriate to carry out this subsection, 
        including regulations or other guidance to--
                    ``(A) determine whether a passive asset is used in 
                the active conduct of a trade or business, in addition 
                to the instances described in paragraph (2)(B), and
                    ``(B) determine whether a passive asset is held as 
                a part of the reasonably required working capital needs 
                of a trade or business under paragraph (2)(C).''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to transfers after the date of the enactment of this Act.
