---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Part 1 - Corporate And International Tax Reforms

## Subpart A - Corporate Tax Rate

### SEC. 138101. INCREASE IN CORPORATE TAX RATE.

    (a) In General.--Section 11(b) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Amount of Tax.--
            ``(1) In general.--The amount of the tax imposed by 
        subsection (a) shall be the sum of--
                    ``(A) 18 percent of so much of the taxable income 
                as does not exceed $400,000,
                    ``(B) 21 percent of so much of the taxable income 
                as exceeds $400,000 but does not exceed $5,000,000, and
                    ``(C) 26.5 percent of so much of the taxable income 
                as exceeds $5,000,000.
        In the case of a corporation which has taxable income in excess 
        of $10,000,000 for any taxable year, the amount of tax 
        determined under the preceding sentence for such taxable year 
        shall be increased by the lesser of (i) 3 percent of such 
        excess, or (ii) $287,000.
            ``(2) Certain personal service corporation not eligible for 
        graduated rates.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the amount of 
        the tax imposed by subsection (a) on the taxable income of a 
        qualified personal service corporation (as defined in section 
        448(d)(2)) shall be equal to 26.5 percent of the taxable 
        income.''.
    (b) Proportional Adjustment of Deduction for Dividends Received.--
            (1) In general.--Section 243(a)(1) is amended by striking 
        ``50 percent'' and inserting ``60 percent''.
            (2) Dividends from 20-percent owned corporations.--Section 
        243(c)(1) is amended--
                    (A) prior to amendment by subparagraph (B), by 
                striking ``65 percent'' and inserting ``72.5 percent'', 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``50 percent'' and inserting ``60 
                percent''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1561 is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--The component members of a controlled group of 
corporations on a December 31 shall, for their taxable years which 
include such December 31, be limited for purposes of this subtitle to--
            ``(1) amounts in each taxable income bracket in the 
        subparagraphs of section 11(b)(1) which do not aggregate more 
        than the maximum amount in each such bracket to which a 
        corporation which is not a component member of a controlled 
        group is entitled, and
            ``(2) one $250,000 ($150,000 if any component member is a 
        corporation described in section 535(c)(2)(B)) amount for 
        purposes of computing the accumulated earnings credit under 
        section 535(c)(2) and (3).
The amounts specified in paragraph (1) shall be divided equally among 
the component members of such group on such December 31 unless all of 
such component members consent (at such time and in such manner as the 
Secretary shall by regulations prescribe) to an apportionment plan 
providing for an unequal allocation of such amounts. The amounts 
specified in paragraph (2) shall be divided equally among the component 
members of such group on such December 31 unless the Secretary 
prescribes regulations permitting an unequal allocation of such 
amounts. Notwithstanding paragraph (1), in applying the last sentence 
of section 11(b)(1) to such component members, the taxable income of 
all such component members shall be taken into account and any increase 
in tax under such last sentence shall be divided among such component 
members in the same manner as amounts under paragraph (1).'', and
            (2) by striking ``accumulated earnings credit'' in the 
        heading and inserting ``certain multiple tax benefits''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.
    (e) Normalization Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--A normalization method of accounting shall 
        not be treated as being used with respect to any public utility 
        property for purposes of section 167 or 168 of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 if the taxpayer, in computing its cost of 
        service for ratemaking purposes and reflecting operating 
        results in its regulated books of account, reduces the tax 
        reserve deficit less rapidly or to a lesser extent than such 
        reserve would be reduced under the average rate assumption 
        method.
            (2) Alternative method for certain taxpayers.--If, as of 
        the first day of the taxable year that includes the date of 
        enactment of this Act--
                    (A) the taxpayer was required by a regulatory 
                agency to compute depreciation for public utility 
                property on the basis of an average life or composite 
                rate method, and
                    (B) the taxpayer's books and underlying records did 
                not contain the vintage account data necessary to apply 
                the average rate assumption method,
        the taxpayer will be treated as using a normalization method of 
        accounting if, with respect to such jurisdiction, the taxpayer 
        uses the alternative method for public utility property that is 
        subject to the regulatory authority of that jurisdiction.
            (3) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection--
                    (A) Tax reserve deficit.--The term ``tax reserve 
                deficit'' means the excess of--
                            (i) the amount which would be the balance 
                        in the reserve for deferred taxes (as described 
                        in section 168(i)(9)(A)(ii) of the Internal 
                        Revenue Code of 1986, or section 
                        167(l)(3)(G)(ii) of such Code as in effect on 
                        the day before the date of the enactment of the 
                        Tax Reform Act of 1986) if the amount of such 
                        reserve were determined by assuming that the 
                        corporate rate increases provided in the 
                        amendments made by this section were in effect 
                        for all prior periods, over
                            (ii) the balance in such reserve as of the 
                        day before such corporate rate increases take 
                        effect.
                    (B) Average rate assumption method.--The average 
                rate assumption method is the method under which the 
                excess in the reserve for deferred taxes is reduced 
                over the remaining lives of the property as used in its 
                regulated books of account which gave rise to the 
                reserve for deferred taxes. Under such method, if 
                timing differences for the property reverse, the amount 
                of the adjustment to the reserve for the deferred taxes 
                is calculated by multiplying--
                            (i) the ratio of the aggregate deferred 
                        taxes for the property to the aggregate timing 
                        differences for the property as of the 
                        beginning of the period in question, by
                            (ii) the amount of the timing differences 
                        which reverse during such period.
                    (C) Alternative method.--The ``alternative method'' 
                is the method in which the taxpayer--
                            (i) computes the tax reserve deficit on all 
                        public utility property included in the plant 
                        account on the basis of the weighted average 
                        life or composite rate used to compute 
                        depreciation for regulatory purposes, and
                            (ii) reduces the tax reserve deficit 
                        ratably over the remaining regulatory life of 
                        the property.
            (4) Treatment of normalization violation.--If, for any 
        taxable year ending after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, the taxpayer does not use a normalization method of 
        accounting, such taxpayer shall not be treated as using a 
        normalization method of accounting for purposes of subsections 
        (f)(2) and (i)(9)(C) of section 168 of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986.
            (5) Regulations.--The Secretary of the Treasury, or the 
        Secretary's designee, shall issue such regulations or other 
        guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out this 
        subsection, including regulations or other guidance to provide 
        appropriate coordination between this subsection, section 
        13001(d) of Public Law 115-97, and section 203(e) of the Tax 
        Reform Act of 1986.

## Subpart B - Limitations on Deduction for Interest Expense

SEC. 138111. LIMITATIONS ON DEDUCTION FOR INTEREST EXPENSE.

    (a) Interest Expense of Certain Members of International Financial 
Reporting Groups.--Section 163 is amended by redesignating subsection 
(n) as subsection (p) and by inserting after subsection (m) the 
following new subsection:
    ``(n) Limitation on Deduction of Interest by Certain Members of 
International Financial Reporting Groups.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of any specified domestic 
        corporation which is a member of any international financial 
        reporting group, the deduction under this chapter for interest 
        paid or accrued during the taxable year in excess of the amount 
        of interest includible in the gross income of such corporation 
        shall not exceed the allowable percentage of 110 percent of 
        such excess.
            ``(2) Specified domestic corporation.--For purposes of this 
        subsection--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `specified domestic 
                corporation' means any domestic corporation other 
                than--
                            ``(i) any corporation if the excess of--
                                    ``(I) the average amount of 
                                interest paid or accrued by such 
                                corporation during the 3-taxable-year 
                                period ending with the taxable year to 
                                which paragraph (1) applies, over
                                    ``(II) the average amount of 
                                interest includible in the gross income 
                                of such corporation for such 3-taxable-
                                year period,
                        does not exceed $12,000,000,
                            ``(ii) any corporation to which paragraph 
                        (1) of section 163(j) does not apply by reason 
                        of paragraph (3) thereof (relating to exemption 
                        for certain small businesses), and
                            ``(iii) any S corporation, real estate 
                        investment trust, or regulated investment 
                        company.
                    ``(B) Aggregation rule.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A)(i), all domestic corporations which 
                are members of the same international financial 
                reporting group shall be treated as a single 
                corporation.
            ``(3) International financial reporting group.--For 
        purposes of this subsection--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `international 
                financial reporting group' means, with respect to any 
                reporting year, two or more entities if--
                            ``(i) either--
                                    ``(I) at least one entity is a 
                                foreign corporation engaged in a trade 
                                or business within the United States, 
                                or
                                    ``(II) at least one entity is a 
                                domestic corporation and another entity 
                                is a foreign corporation, and
                            ``(ii) such entities are included in the 
                        same applicable financial statement with 
                        respect to such year.
                    ``(B) Additional members.--
                            ``(i) In general.--To the extent provided 
                        by the Secretary in regulations or other 
                        guidance, the specified domestic corporation 
                        referred to in paragraph (1) may elect (at such 
                        time and in such manner as the Secretary may 
                        provide) for purposes of this subsection to 
                        treat any eligible corporation as a member of 
                        the international financial reporting group of 
                        which such specified domestic corporation is a 
                        member if such eligible corporation maintains 
                        (and such specified domestic corporation has 
                        access to) such books and records as the 
                        Secretary determines are satisfactory to allow 
                        for the application of this subsection with 
                        respect to such eligible corporation. Any 
                        election under this clause shall apply only 
                        with respect to the specified domestic 
                        corporation which makes such election.
                            ``(ii) Eligible corporation.--The term 
                        `eligible corporation' means, with respect to 
                        any international financial reporting group, 
                        any corporation if at least 20 percent of the 
                        stock of such corporation (determined by vote 
                        and value) is held (directly or indirectly) by 
                        members of such international financial 
                        reporting group (determined without regard to 
                        this clause).
            ``(4) Allowable percentage.--For purposes of this 
        subsection--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `allowable percentage' 
                means, with respect to any specified domestic 
                corporation for any taxable year, the ratio (expressed 
                as a percentage and not greater than 100 percent) of--
                            ``(i) such corporation's allocable share of 
                        the international financial reporting group's 
                        reported net interest expense for the reporting 
                        year of such group which ends in or with such 
                        taxable year of such corporation, over
                            ``(ii) such corporation's reported net 
                        interest expense for such reporting year of 
                        such group.
                    ``(B) Reported net interest expense.--The term 
                `reported net interest expense' means--
                            ``(i) with respect to any international 
                        financial reporting group for any reporting 
                        year, the excess of--
                                    ``(I) the aggregate amount of 
                                interest expense reported in such 
                                group's applicable financial statements 
                                for such taxable year, over
                                    ``(II) the aggregate amount of 
                                interest income reported in such 
                                group's applicable financial statements 
                                for such taxable year, and
                            ``(ii) with respect to any specified 
                        domestic corporation for any reporting year, 
                        the excess of--
                                    ``(I) the amount of interest 
                                expense of such corporation reported in 
                                the books and records of the 
                                international financial reporting group 
                                which are used in preparing such 
                                group's applicable financial statements 
                                for such taxable year, over
                                    ``(II) the amount of interest 
                                income of such corporation reported in 
                                such books and records.
                    ``(C) Allocable share of reported net interest 
                expense.--With respect to any specified domestic 
                corporation which is a member of any international 
                financial reporting group, such corporation's allocable 
                share of such group's reported net interest expense for 
                any reporting year is the portion of such expense which 
                bears the same ratio to such expense as--
                            ``(i) the EBITDA of such corporation for 
                        such reporting year, bears to
                            ``(ii) the EBITDA of such group for such 
                        reporting year.
                    ``(D) EBITDA.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The term `EBITDA' means, 
                        with respect to any reporting year, earnings 
                        before interest income and interest expense, 
                        taxes, depreciation, depletion, and 
                        amortization--
                                    ``(I) as determined in the 
                                international financial reporting 
                                group's applicable financial statements 
                                for such year, or
                                    ``(II) for purposes of subparagraph 
                                (A)(i), as determined in the books and 
                                records of the international financial 
                                reporting group which are used in 
                                preparing such statements if not 
                                determined in such statements.
                            ``(ii) Treatment of intra-group 
                        distributions.--The EBITDA of any specified 
                        domestic corporation shall be determined 
                        without regard to any distribution received by 
                        such corporation from any other member of the 
                        international financial reporting group.
                    ``(E) Special rules for non-positive ebitda.--
                            ``(i) Non-positive group ebitda.--In the 
                        case of any international financial reporting 
                        group the EBITDA of which is zero or less, 
                        paragraph (1) shall not apply to any specified 
                        domestic corporation which is a member of such 
                        group.
                            ``(ii) Non-positive entity ebitda.--In the 
                        case of any specified domestic corporation the 
                        EBITDA of which is zero or less, the allowable 
                        percentage shall be 0 percent.
            ``(5) Applicable financial statement.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `applicable financial statement' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 451(b)(3).
            ``(6) Reporting year.--For purposes of this subsection, the 
        term `reporting year' means any year for which an applicable 
        financial statement is prepared or required to be prepared.
            ``(7) Foreign corporations engaged in trade or business 
        within the united states.--For purposes of this subsection, any 
        foreign corporation engaged in a trade or business within the 
        United States shall be treated as a domestic corporation with 
        respect to any earnings, interest income and interest expense, 
        or other amount, which is effectively connected with the 
        conduct of a trade or business in the United States.
            ``(8) Regulations.--The Secretary may issue such 
        regulations or other guidance as are necessary or appropriate 
        to carry out the purposes of this subsection, including 
        regulations or other guidance which--
                    ``(A) allows or requires the adjustment of amounts 
                reported on applicable financial statements,
                    ``(B) allows or requires any corporation to be 
                included or excluded as a member of any international 
                financial reporting group for purposes of any 
                determination or calculation under this subsection,
                    ``(C) provides rules for the application of this 
                subsection with respect to--
                            ``(i) a domestic corporation that is a 
                        partner (directly or indirectly) in a 
                        partnership, and
                            ``(ii) foreign corporation to which this 
                        subsection applies by reason of paragraph 
                        (7).''.
    (b) Modification of Application of Limitation on Business Interest 
to Partnerships and S Corporations.--Section 163(j)(4) is amended to 
read as follows:
            ``(4) Application to partnerships and s corporations.--In 
        the case of any partnership or S corporation, this subsection 
        shall be applied at the partner or shareholder level, 
        respectively.''.
    (c) Carryforward of Disallowed Interest.--
            (1) In general.--Section 163 is amended by inserting after 
        subsection (n), as added by subsection (a), the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(o) Carryforward of Certain Disallowed Interest.--
            ``(1) In general.--The amount of any interest not allowed 
        as a deduction for any taxable year by reason of subsection 
        (j)(1) or (n)(1) (whichever imposes the lower limitation with 
        respect to such taxable year) shall be treated as interest (and 
        as business interest for purposes of subsection (j)(1)) paid or 
        accrued in the succeeding taxable year.
            ``(2) Limitation on carryforward.--Interest paid or accrued 
        in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2021 (determined 
        without regard to paragraph (1)), shall not be carried forward 
        under paragraph (1) past the fifth taxable year following the 
        taxable year in which such interest was so paid or accrued. For 
        purposes of the preceding sentence, interest shall be treated 
        as allowed as a deduction on a first-in, first-out basis.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Section 163(j)(2) is amended to read as 
                follows:
            ``(2) Carryforward cross-reference.--For carryforward 
        treatment, see subsection (o).''.
                    (B) Section 381(c)(20) is amended to read as 
                follows:
            ``(20) Carryforward of disallowed interest.--The carryover 
        of disallowed interest described in section 163(o) to taxable 
        years ending after the date of distribution or transfer.''.
                    (C) Section 382(d)(3) is amended to read as 
                follows:
            ``(3) Application to carryforward of disallowed interest.--
        The term `pre-change loss' shall include any carryover of 
        disallowed interest described in section 163(o) under rules 
        similar to the rules of paragraph (1).''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.
    (e) Transition Rule.--In the case of a partner's first succeeding 
taxable year described in subclause (II) of section 163(j)(4)(B)(ii) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as in effect before the amendment 
made by subsection (b)) which begins after December 31, 2021, the 
amount of excess business interest which would (but for such amendment) 
be carried to such taxable year under such subclause shall be treated 
as interest (and as business interest for purposes of section 163(j) of 
such Code, as amended by this section) paid or accrued in such taxable 
year. For carryover of any such interest disallowed for such taxable 
year, see section 163(o) of such Code, as amended by this section.

## Subpart C - Outbound International Provisions

SEC. 138121. MODIFICATIONS TO DEDUCTION FOR FOREIGN-DERIVED INTANGIBLE 
              INCOME AND GLOBAL INTANGIBLE LOW-TAXED INCOME.

    (a) In General.--Section 250(a) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--In the case of a domestic corporation for any 
taxable year, there shall be allowed as a deduction an amount equal to 
the sum of--
            ``(1) 21.875 percent of the foreign-derived intangible 
        income of such domestic corporation for such taxable year, plus
            ``(2) 37.5 percent of--
                    ``(A) the global intangible low-taxed income (if 
                any) which is included in the gross income of such 
                domestic corporation under section 951A for such 
                taxable year, and
                    ``(B) the amount treated as a dividend received by 
                such corporation under section 78 which is attributable 
                to the amount described in subparagraph (A).''.
    (b) Deduction Taken Into Account in Determining Net Operating Loss 
Deduction.--Section 172(d) is amended by striking paragraph (9).
    (c) Certain Other Modifications.--
            (1) Section 250(b)(3) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)(i)--
                            (i) by striking ``and'' at the end of 
                        subclause (V),
                            (ii) by striking ``over'' at the end of 
                        subclause (VI), and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subclauses:
                                    ``(VII) any income received or 
                                accrued which is of a kind which would 
                                be foreign personal holding company 
                                income (as defined in section 954(c)),
                                    ``(VIII) any amount included in the 
                                gross income of such corporation under 
                                section 1293, and
                                    ``(IX) any disqualified 
                                extraterritorial income, over'', and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Disqualified extraterritorial income.--
                            ``(i) In general.--For purposes of 
                        subparagraph (A)(i)(IX), the term `disqualified 
                        extraterritorial income' means any amount 
                        included in the gross income of the corporation 
                        with respect to any transaction for any taxable 
                        year if any amount could (determined after 
                        application of clause (ii) but without regard 
                        to any election under section 942(a)(3) as in 
                        effect before its repeal) be excluded from the 
                        gross income of the corporation with respect to 
                        such transaction for such taxable year by 
                        reason of section 114 pursuant to the 
                        application of subsection (d) or (f) of section 
                        101 of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
                            ``(ii) Election out of extraterritorial 
                        income benefits.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Except as 
                                provided in subclause (II), the 
                                corporation referred to in clause (i) 
                                may make an irrevocable election (at 
                                such time and in such form and manner 
                                as the Secretary may provide) to have 
                                subsections (d) and (f) of section 101 
                                of the American Jobs Creation Act of 
                                2004 not apply with respect to such 
                                corporation for the taxable year for 
                                which such election is made and all 
                                succeeding taxable years (applicable 
                                with respect to all transactions, 
                                including transactions occurring before 
                                such taxable year).
                                    ``(II) Expanded affiliated 
                                groups.--In the case of any corporation 
                                which is a member of an expanded 
                                affiliated group, the election 
                                described in subclause (I) may be made 
                                only by the common parent of such group 
                                and shall apply with respect to all 
                                members of such group. For purposes of 
                                the preceding sentence, the term 
                                `expanded affiliated group' means an 
                                affiliated group as defined in section 
                                1504(a), determined without regard to 
                                section 1504(b)(3) and by substituting 
                                `more than 50 percent' for `at least 80 
                                percent' each place it appears.''.
            (2) Section 613A(d)(1) is amended by striking ``and'' at 
        the end of subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end 
        of subparagraph (E) and inserting ``, and'', and by inserting 
        after subparagraph (E) the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(F) any deduction allowable under section 250.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the amendments made by this section shall apply to 
        taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.
            (2) Certain other modifications.--The amendments made by 
        subsection (c) shall apply to taxable years beginning after 
        December 31, 2017.
    (e) Transitional Rule for Accelerated Percentage Reduction.--
            (1) In general.--In the case of any taxable year which 
        includes December 31, 2021 (other than a taxable year with 
        respect to which such date is the last day of such taxable 
        year)--
                    (A) the percentage in effect under section 
                250(a)(1)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall 
                be treated as being equal to the sum of--
                            (i) the pre-effective date percentage of 
                        37.5 percent, plus
                            (ii) the post-effective date percentage of 
                        21.875 percent, and
                    (B) the percentage in effect under section 
                250(a)(1)(B) of such Code shall be treated as being 
                equal to the sum of--
                            (i) the pre-effective date percentage of 50 
                        percent, plus
                            (ii) the post-effective date percentage of 
                        37.5 percent.
            (2) Pre- and post-effective date percentages.--For purposes 
        of this subsection, with respect to any taxable year--
                    (A) the term ``pre-effective date percentage'' 
                means the ratio that the portion of such taxable year 
                which precedes January 1, 2022, bears to the entire 
                taxable year, and
                    (B) the term ``post-effective date percentage'' 
                means the ratio that the remainder of such taxable year 
                bears to the entire taxable year.

SEC. 138122. REPEAL OF ELECTION FOR 1-MONTH DEFERRAL IN DETERMINATION 
              OF TAXABLE YEAR OF SPECIFIED FOREIGN CORPORATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 898(c) is amended by striking paragraph 
(2) and redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years of specified foreign corporations beginning 
after November 30, 2021.
    (c) Transition Rule.--A taxpayer's first taxable year beginning 
after November 30, 2021, shall end at the same time as the first 
required year (within the meaning of section 898(c)(1) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986) ending after such date.

SEC. 138123. MODIFICATIONS OF FOREIGN TAX CREDIT RULES APPLICABLE TO 
              CERTAIN TAXPAYERS RECEIVING SPECIFIC ECONOMIC BENEFITS.

    (a) In General.--Section 901 is amended by redesignating subsection 
(n) as subsection (o) and by inserting after subsection (m) the 
following new subsection:
    ``(n) Special Rules Relating to Dual Capacity Taxpayers.--
            ``(1) General rule.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        this chapter, any amount paid or accrued by a dual capacity 
        taxpayer to a foreign country or possession of the United 
        States for any period shall not be considered a tax--
                    ``(A) if, for such period, the foreign country or 
                possession does not impose a generally applicable 
                income tax, or
                    ``(B) to the extent such amount exceeds the amount 
                which would be paid or accrued by such dual capacity 
                taxpayer under the generally applicable income tax 
                imposed by such country or possession if such taxpayer 
                were not a dual capacity taxpayer.
                Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to imply 
                the proper treatment of any such amount not in excess 
                of the amount determined under subparagraph (B).
            ``(2) Dual capacity taxpayer.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `dual capacity taxpayer' means, with 
        respect to any foreign country or possession of the United 
        States, a person who--
                    ``(A) is subject to a levy of such country or 
                possession, and
                    ``(B) receives (or will receive) directly or 
                indirectly a specific economic benefit from such 
                country or possession.
            ``(3) Generally applicable income tax.--For purposes of 
        this subsection, the term `generally applicable income tax' 
        means an income tax (or a series of income taxes) which is 
        generally imposed under the laws of a foreign country or 
        possession of the United States on residents of such foreign 
        country or possession that are not dual capacity taxpayers.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years of foreign corporations beginning after December 
31, 2021, and to taxable years of United States shareholders in which 
or with which such taxable years of foreign corporations end.

SEC. 138124. MODIFICATIONS TO FOREIGN TAX CREDIT LIMITATIONS.

    (a) Country-by-country Application of Limitation on Foreign Tax 
Credit Based on Taxable Units.--
            (1) In general.--Section 904 is amended by inserting after 
        subsection (d) the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Country-by-country Application Based on Taxable Units.--
            ``(1) In general.--The provisions of subsections (a), (b), 
        (c), and (d) and sections 907 and 960 shall be applied 
        separately with respect to each country by taking into account 
        the aggregate income properly attributable or otherwise 
        allocable to a taxable unit of the taxpayer which is a tax 
        resident of such country.
            ``(2) Taxable units.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as otherwise provided by 
                the Secretary, each item shall be attributable or 
                otherwise allocable to exactly one taxable unit of the 
                taxpayer.
                    ``(B) Determination of taxable units.--Except as 
                otherwise provided by the Secretary, the taxable units 
                of a taxpayer are as follows:
                            ``(i) General taxable unit.--The person 
                        that is the taxpayer and that is not otherwise 
                        described in a separate clause of this 
                        subparagraph.
                            ``(ii) Controlled foreign corporations.--
                        Each controlled foreign corporation with 
                        respect to which the taxpayer is a United 
                        States shareholder.
                            ``(iii) Interests in pass-through 
                        entities.--Each interest held (directly or 
                        indirectly) by the taxpayer or any controlled 
                        foreign corporation referred to in clause (ii) 
                        in a pass-through entity if such pass-through 
                        entity is a tax resident of a country other 
                        than the country with respect to which such 
                        taxpayer or controlled foreign corporation (as 
                        the case may be) is a tax resident.
                            ``(iv) Branches.--Each branch (or portion 
                        thereof) the activities of which are directly 
                        or indirectly carried on by the taxpayer or any 
                        controlled foreign corporation referred to in 
                        clause (ii) and which give rise to a taxable 
                        presence in a country other than the country in 
                        which the taxpayer or any such controlled 
                        foreign corporation (as the case may be) is a 
                        tax resident.
            ``(3) Definitions and special rules.--For purposes of this 
        subsection--
                    ``(A) Tax resident.--Except as otherwise provided 
                by the Secretary, the term `tax resident' means a 
                person or arrangement subject to tax under the tax law 
                of a country as a resident, or a person or arrangement 
                that gives rise to a taxable presence by reason of its 
                activities in such country. If an entity is organized 
                under the law of a country, or resident in a country, 
                that does not impose an income tax with respect to such 
                entity, such entity shall, except as provided by the 
                Secretary, be treated as subject to tax under the tax 
                law of such country for the purposes of the preceding 
                sentence.
                    ``(B) Pass-through entity.--Except as otherwise 
                provided by the Secretary, the term `pass-through 
                entity' includes any partnership or other entity or 
                arrangement to the extent that income, gain, deduction, 
                or loss of the entity is taken into account in 
                determining the income or loss of a person that owns 
                (directly or indirectly) an interest in such entity.
                    ``(C) Branch.--Except as otherwise provided by the 
                Secretary, the term `branch' means a taxable presence 
                of a tax resident in a country other than its country 
                of residence as determined under such other country's 
                tax law. The Secretary shall provide regulations or 
                other guidance applying such term to activities in a 
                country that does not subject income to tax on the 
                basis of residence or taxable presence.
                    ``(D) Treatment of fiscally autonomous 
                jurisdictions.--Any fiscally autonomous jurisdiction 
                shall be treated as a separate country. Any possession 
                of the United States shall also be treated as separate 
                country. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the 
                term `possession of the United States' means each of 
                American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
                Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, 
                and the Virgin Islands.
            ``(4) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such 
        regulations or other guidance as may be necessary or 
        appropriate to carry out, or prevent avoidance of, the purposes 
        of this subsection, including regulations or other guidance--
                    ``(A) providing for the application of this 
                subsection to entities, arrangements, and branches that 
                are otherwise considered a resident of more than one 
                country or no country,
                    ``(B) providing for the application of this 
                subsection to hybrid entities or hybrid transactions 
                (as such terms are used for purposes of section 267A), 
                pass-through entities, passive foreign investment 
                companies, trusts, and other entities or arrangements 
                not otherwise described in this subsection, and
                    ``(C) providing for the assignment of any item 
                (including foreign taxes and deductions) to taxable 
                units, including in the case of amounts not otherwise 
                taken into account in determining taxable income under 
                this chapter.''.
            (2) Application of recapture of overall foreign loss.--
        Section 904(f)(5)(E)(i) is amended by inserting ``applied 
        separately with respect to each country (within the meaning of 
        subsection (e)) as provided in subsection (e)'' before the 
        period at the end.
            (3) Application of separate limitation losses with respect 
        to global intangible low-taxed income.--Section 904(f)(5) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(G) Special rule with respect to global 
                intangible low-taxed income.--The amount of the 
                separate limitation losses for any taxable year shall 
                reduce income described in subparagraph (d)(1)(A) for 
                such taxable year only to the extent the aggregate 
                amount of such losses exceeds the aggregate amount of 
                the separate limitation incomes for such taxable year. 
                For purposes of this subparagraph, separate limitation 
                income shall exclude income described in subparagraph 
                (d)(1)(A) for the taxable year.''.
    (b) Repeal of Separate Application to Foreign Branch Income.--
            (1) In general.--Section 904(d)(1) is amended by striking 
        subparagraph (B) and redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as 
        subparagraph (B) and (C).
            (2) Coordination with deduction for foreign-derived 
        intangible income.--Section 205(b)(3)(A) is amended--
                    (A) by striking subclause (VI) of clause (i) and 
                inserting the following new subclause:
                                    ``(VI) the income of a United 
                                States person which is attributable to 
                                1 or more branches (which would be 
                                referred to in clause (iv) of section 
                                904(e)(2)(B) if such clause were 
                                applied without regard to any reference 
                                to a controlled foreign corporation) or 
                                pass-through entities (which would be 
                                referred to in clause (iii) of section 
                                904(e)(2)(B) if such clause were 
                                applied without regard to any reference 
                                to a controlled foreign corporation) in 
                                1 or more foreign countries, over'', 
                                and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following flush 
                sentence:
                ``For purposes of clause (i)(VI), the amount of income 
                attributable to a branch or pass-through entity shall 
                be determined under rules established by the 
                Secretary.''.
            (3) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Section 904(d)(2)(A)(ii) is amended by striking 
                ``, foreign branch income,''.
                    (B) Section 904(d)(2) is amended by striking 
                subparagraph (J).
    (c) Modification of Foreign Tax Credit Carryback and 
Carryforward.--
            (1) Carryover limited to 5 taxable years.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 904(c) is amended by 
                striking ``10 succeeding taxable years'' and inserting 
                ``5 succeeding taxable years''.
                    (B) Conforming amendment.--Section 6511(d)(3)(A) is 
                amended by striking ``10 years'' and inserting ``5 
                years''.
            (2) Repeal of carryback.--Section 904(c) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``in the first preceding taxable 
                year, and'',
                    (B) by striking ``preceding or'' each place it 
                appears, and
                    (C) by striking ``Carryback and'' in the heading 
                thereof.
            (3) Carryover applicable to tax on global intangible low-
        taxed income.--Section 904(c) is amended by striking the last 
        sentence.
            (4) Application to limitation on foreign oil and gas 
        taxes.--Section 907(f)(1) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``in the first preceding taxable 
                year and'', and
                    (B) by striking ``first 10'' and inserting ``first 
                5''.
    (d) Treatment of Certain Tax-exempt Dividends.--
            (1) Certain tax-exempt dividends taken into account in 
        applying limitations on foreign tax credits.--Section 904(b) is 
        amended by striking paragraph (4).
            (2) Certain tax-exempt dividends not taken into account in 
        allocating interest expense.--Section 864(e)(3) is amended by 
        striking ``or 245(a)'' and inserting ``, 245(a), or 245A''.
    (e) Rules for Allocation of Certain Deductions to Foreign Source 
Global Intangible Low-taxed Income for Purposes of Foreign Tax Credit 
Limitation.--Section 904(b), as amended by the preceding provisions of 
this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Deductions treated as allocable to foreign source 
        global intangible low-taxed income.--In the case of a domestic 
        corporation and solely for purposes of the application of 
        subsection (a) with respect to amounts described in subsection 
        (d)(1)(A), the taxpayer's taxable income from sources without 
        the United States shall be determined by--
                    ``(A) allocating any deduction allowed under 
                section 250 to such income, and
                    ``(B) by treating any expense of such domestic 
                corporation as not allocable to such income.''.
    (f) Treatment of Certain Asset Dispositions.--Section 904(b), as 
amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Treatment of certain asset dispositions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as otherwise provided by 
                the Secretary, in the case of any covered asset 
                disposition, the principles of section 338(h)(16) shall 
                apply in determining the source and character of any 
                item for purposes of this part.
                    ``(B) Covered asset disposition.--For purposes of 
                this paragraph, the term `covered asset disposition' 
                means any transaction which--
                            ``(i) is treated as a disposition of assets 
                        for purposes of subchapter N of this chapter, 
                        and
                            ``(ii) is treated as a disposition of stock 
                        of a corporation (or is disregarded) for 
                        purposes of the tax laws of the relevant 
                        foreign country or possession of the United 
                        States.
                    ``(C) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such 
                regulations or other guidance as is necessary or 
                appropriate to carry out, or to the prevent the 
                avoidance of, the purposes of this paragraph.''.
    (g) Redetermination of Foreign Taxes and Related Claims.--
            (1) In general.--Section 905(c)(1) is amended by striking 
        ``or'' at the end of subparagraph (B) and by inserting after 
        subparagraph (C) the following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(D) the taxpayer makes a timely change in its 
                choice to claim a credit or deduction for taxes paid or 
                accrued, or
                    ``(E) there is any other change in the amount, or 
                treatment, of taxes, which affects the taxpayer's tax 
                liability under this chapter.''.
            (2) Modification to time for claiming credit or 
        deduction.--Section 901(a) is amended by striking the second 
        sentence and inserting the following: ``The choice to claim a 
        credit for such amounts may be made at any time before the 
        expiration of the period prescribed by section 6511(d)(3)(A), 
        and the choice to claim a deduction in lieu of a credit may be 
        made at any time before the expiration of the period prescribed 
        by section 6511(a), for making a claim for refund or credit of 
        the tax imposed by this chapter for such taxable year, or such 
        later period prescribed by section 6511(c) if the period is 
        extended by agreement.''.
            (3) Modification to special period of limitation.--Section 
        6511(d)(3)(A) is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``change in the liability for'' 
                before ``any taxes paid or accrued'',
                    (B) by striking ``actually paid'' and inserting 
                ``paid (or deemed paid under section 960)'', and
                    (C) by inserting ``change in the liability for'' 
                before ``foreign taxes'' in the heading thereof.
    (h) Effective Dates.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the amendments made by this section shall apply to 
        taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.
            (2) Modification of foreign tax credit carryback and 
        carryforward.--Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (3), 
        the amendments made by subsection (c) shall apply to taxes paid 
        or accrued in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.
            (3) Certain modifications.--The amendment made by 
        subsection (c)(4)(B) shall apply to taxable years of foreign 
        corporations beginning after December 31, 2017, and to taxable 
        years of United States shareholders in which or with which such 
        taxable years of foreign corporations end.
            (4) Redetermination of foreign taxes and related claims.--
        The amendments made by subsection (g) shall take effect on the 
        date which is 60 days after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act.
    (i) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe rules providing for 
the application of subsection (e) of section 904 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, as added by this section, to any amounts carried 
over under subsection (c) of such section from a taxable year with 
respect to which such subsection (e) did not apply to a taxable year 
with respect to which such subsection (e) does apply.

SEC. 138125. FOREIGN OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION INCOME AND FOREIGN OIL 
              RELATED INCOME TO INCLUDE OIL SHALE AND TAR SANDS.

    (a) In General.--Paragraphs (1)(A) and (2)(A) of section 907(c) are 
each amended by inserting ``(or oil shale or tar sands)'' after ``oil 
or gas wells''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years of foreign corporations beginning after December 
31, 2021, and to taxable years of United States shareholders in which 
or with which such taxable years of foreign corporations end.

SEC. 138126. MODIFICATIONS TO INCLUSION OF GLOBAL INTANGIBLE LOW-TAXED 
              INCOME.

    (a) Country-by-country Application of Section Based on CFC Taxable 
Units.--Section 951A is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(g) Country-by-country Application of Section Based on CFC 
Taxable Units.--
            ``(1) In general.--If any CFC taxable unit of a United 
        States shareholder is a tax resident of a country which is 
        different from the country with respect to which any other CFC 
        taxable unit of such United States shareholder is a tax 
        resident--
                    ``(A) such shareholder's global intangible low-
                taxed income for purposes of subsection (a) shall be 
                the sum of the amounts of global intangible low-taxed 
                income determined separately with respect to each 
                country with respect to which any CFC taxable unit of 
                such shareholder is a tax resident, and
                    ``(B) for purposes of determining such separate 
                amounts of global intangible low-taxed income--
                            ``(i) any reference in subsection (b), (c), 
                        or (d) to a controlled foreign corporation of 
                        such shareholder shall be treated as reference 
                        to a CFC taxable unit of such shareholder, and
                            ``(ii) net CFC tested income, net deemed 
                        tangible income return, qualified business 
                        asset investment, interest expense described in 
                        subsection (b)(2)(B), and such other items and 
                        amounts as the Secretary may provide, shall be 
                        determined separately with respect to each such 
                        country by determining such amounts with 
                        respect to each CFC taxable unit of such 
                        shareholder which is a tax resident of such 
                        country.
            ``(2) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection--
                    ``(A) CFC taxable unit.--The term `CFC taxable 
                unit' means any taxable unit described clause (ii), 
                (iii), or (iv) of section 904(e)(2)(B) (determined 
                without regard to the references to the taxpayer in 
                clauses (iii) and (iv) of such section).
                    ``(B) Application of other definitions.--Terms used 
                in this subsection which are also used in section 
                904(e) shall have the same meaning as when used in such 
                section.
            ``(3) Special rules.--For purposes of this subsection--
                    ``(A) Application of certain rules.--Except as 
                otherwise provided by the Secretary, rules similar to 
                the rules of section 904(e) shall apply.
                    ``(B) Allocation of global intangible low-taxed 
                income to controlled foreign corporations.--Except as 
                otherwise provided by the Secretary, subsection (f)(2) 
                shall be applied separately with respect to each CFC 
                taxable unit.''.
    (b) Regulatory Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Section 951A, as amended by subsection 
        (a), is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(h) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such regulations or 
other guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out, or 
prevent the avoidance of, the purposes of this section, including 
regulations or guidance which provide for--
            ``(1) the treatment of property if such property is 
        transferred, or held, temporarily,
            ``(2) the treatment of property if the avoidance of the 
        purposes of this section is a factor in the transfer or holding 
        of such property, and
            ``(3) appropriate adjustments to the basis of stock and 
        other ownership interests, and to earnings and profits, to 
        reflect tested losses.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 951A(d) is amended by 
        striking paragraph (4).
            (3) Additional regulatory authority.--Section 951A(h), as 
        added by paragraph (1), is amended by striking ``and'' at the 
        end of paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end of 
        paragraph (3) and inserting a comma, and by adding at the end 
        the following new paragraphs:
            ``(4) rules similar to the rules provided under the 
        regulations or guidance issued under section 904(e)(5),
            ``(5) appropriate basis adjustments, and
            ``(6) appropriate adjustment to made, and appropriate tax 
        attributes and records to be maintained, separately with 
        respect to CFC taxable units.''.
    (c) Carryover of Net CFC Tested Loss.--
            (1) In general.--Section 951A(c) is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Carryover of net cfc tested loss.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If the amount described in 
                paragraph (1)(B) with respect to any United States 
                shareholder for any taxable year of such United States 
                shareholder (determined after the application of this 
                paragraph) exceeds the amount described in paragraph 
                (1)(A) with respect to such shareholder of such taxable 
                year, the amount otherwise described in paragraph 
                (1)(B) with respect to such shareholder for the 
                succeeding taxable year shall be increased by the 
                amount of such excess.
                    ``(B) Proper adjustment in allocations of global 
                intangible low-taxed income to controlled foreign 
                corporations.--Proper adjustments shall be made in the 
                application of subsection (f)(2)(B) to take into 
                account any decrease in global intangible low-taxed 
                income by reason of the application of subparagraph 
                (A).''.
            (2) Coordination with country-by-country application.--
        Section 951A(g)(1)(B)(ii), as added by subsection (a), is 
        amended by inserting ``any increase determined under subsection 
        (c)(3)(A),'' after ``interest expense described in subsection 
        (b)(2)(B),''.
            (3) Application of rules with respect to ownership 
        changes.--Section 382(d) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Application to carryover of net cfc tested loss.--The 
        term `pre-change loss' shall include any excess carried over 
        under section 951A(c)(3) under rules similar to the rules of 
        paragraph (1).''.
    (d) Reduction in Net Deemed Tangible Income Return for Purposes of 
Determining Global Intangible Low-taxed Income.--
            (1) In general.--Section 951A(b)(2)(A) is amended by 
        striking ``10 percent'' and inserting ``5 percent''.
            (2) Application to assets located in possessions of the 
        united states.--Section 951A(b) is amended by adding at the end 
        the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Application to assets located in possessions of the 
        united states.--In the case of any specified tangible property 
        located in a possession of the United States, paragraph (2)(A) 
        and subsection (d) shall be applied by substituting `10 
        percent' for `5 percent' in paragraph (2)(A).''.
    (e) Inclusion of Foreign Oil and Gas Extraction Income in 
Determining Tested Income and Loss.--Section 951A(c)(2)(A) is amended 
by inserting ``and'' at the end of subclause (III), by striking ``and'' 
at the end of subclause (IV) and inserting ``over'', and by striking 
subclause (V).
    (f) Coordination With Other Provisions.--Section 951A(f)(1) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Treatment of certain references.--Except as 
                otherwise provided by the Secretary, references to 
                section 951 or section 951(a) in sections 959, 961, 962 
                and such other sections as the Secretary may identify 
                shall include references to section 951A or section 
                951A(a), respectively.''.
    (g) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the amendments made by this section shall apply to 
        taxable years of foreign corporations beginning after December 
        31, 2021, and to taxable years of United States shareholders in 
        which or with which such taxable years of foreign corporations 
        end.
            (2) Certain related modifications.--The amendments made by 
        subsections (b)(1), (b)(2), and (f) shall apply to taxable 
        years of foreign corporations beginning after December 31, 
        2017, and to taxable years of United States shareholders in 
        which or with which such taxable years of foreign corporations 
        end.

SEC. 138127. MODIFICATIONS TO DETERMINATION OF DEEMED PAID CREDIT FOR 
              TAXES PROPERLY ATTRIBUTABLE TO TESTED INCOME.

    (a) Increase in Deemed Paid Credit.--Section 960(d)(1) is amended 
by striking ``80 percent'' and inserting ``95 percent (100 percent in 
the case of tested foreign income taxes paid or accrued to a possession 
of the United States)''.
    (b) Inclusion of Taxes Properly Attributable to Tested Loss.--
Section 960(d)(3) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(3) Tested foreign income taxes.--For purposes of 
        paragraph (1), the term `tested foreign income taxes' means, 
        with respect to any domestic corporation which is a United 
        States shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation, such 
        shareholder's pro rata share (as determined under section 
        951A(e)(1)) of--
                    ``(A) the foreign income taxes (within the meaning 
                of section 904(d)(2)(F)) which are properly 
                attributable to amounts taken into account in 
                determining tested income or tested loss under section 
                951A(b)(2), and
                    ``(B) solely to the extent provided in regulations 
                prescribed by the Secretary, the foreign income taxes 
                (as so defined) paid or accrued by a foreign 
                corporation (other than such controlled foreign 
                corporation) which owns, directly or indirectly, 80 
                percent or more (by vote or value) of the stock in such 
                domestic corporation but only if--
                            ``(i) such foreign income taxes are 
                        properly attributable to amounts of such 
                        controlled foreign corporation taken into 
                        account in determining tested income or tested 
                        loss under section 951A(b)(2), and
                            ``(ii) no credit is allowed, in whole or in 
                        part, for such foreign taxes in any foreign 
                        jurisdiction.''.
    (c) Application of Foreign Tax Credit Limitation to Amounts 
Included Under Section 78.--
            (1) Section 904(d)(2) is amended by redesignating 
        subparagraph (K) as subparagraph (L) and by inserting after 
        subparagraph (J) the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(K) Amounts includible under section 78.--Any 
                amount includible in gross income under section 78 
                shall be treated as income in the same separate 
                category as the related foreign taxes deemed paid.''.
            (2) Section 904(d)(3)(G) is amended by striking the second 
        sentence and inserting the following: ``Any amount included in 
        gross income under section 78 shall not be treated as a 
        dividend.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years of 
        foreign corporations beginning after December 31, 2021, and to 
        taxable years of United States shareholders in which or with 
        which such taxable years of foreign corporations end.
            (2) Application of foreign tax credit limitation to amounts 
        included under section 78.--The amendments made by subsection 
        (c) shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 
        2017.

SEC. 138128. DEDUCTION FOR FOREIGN SOURCE PORTION OF DIVIDENDS LIMITED 
              TO CONTROLLED FOREIGN CORPORATIONS, ETC.

    (a) In General.--Section 245A is amended--
            (1) in subsections (a), (c)(1), and (c)(2), by striking 
        ``specified 10-percent owned foreign corporation'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``controlled foreign corporation'', 
        and
            (2) by striking subsection (b).
    (b) Modifications Related to Determination of Status as a 
Controlled Foreign Corporation.--
            (1) Subpart F of part III of subchapter N of chapter 1 is 
        amended by inserting after section 951A the following new 
        section:

``SEC. 951B. AMOUNTS INCLUDED IN GROSS INCOME OF FOREIGN CONTROLLED 
              UNITED STATES SHAREHOLDERS.

    ``(a) In General.--In the case of any foreign controlled United 
States shareholder of a foreign controlled foreign corporation--
            ``(1) this subpart (other than sections 951A, 951(b), 957, 
        and 965) shall be applied with respect to such shareholder 
        (separately from, and in addition to, the application of this 
        subpart without regard to this section)--
                    ``(A) by substituting `foreign controlled United 
                States shareholder' for `United States shareholder' 
                each place it appears therein, and
                    ``(B) by substituting `foreign controlled foreign 
                corporation' for `controlled foreign corporation' each 
                place it appears therein, and
            ``(2) sections 951A and 965 shall be applied with respect 
        to such shareholder --
                    ``(A) by treating each reference to `United States 
                shareholder' in such sections as including a reference 
                to such shareholder, and
                    ``(B) by treating each reference to `controlled 
                foreign corporation' in such sections as including a 
                reference to such foreign controlled foreign 
                corporation.
    ``(b) Foreign Controlled United States Shareholder.--For purposes 
of this section, the term `foreign controlled United States 
shareholder' means, with respect to any foreign corporation, any United 
States person which would be a United States shareholder with respect 
to such foreign corporation if--
            ``(1) section 951(b) were applied by substituting `more 
        than 50 percent' for `10 percent or more', and
            ``(2) section 958(b) were applied without regard to 
        paragraph (4) thereof.
    ``(c) Foreign Controlled Foreign Corporation.--For purposes of this 
section, the term `foreign controlled foreign corporation' means a 
foreign corporation, other than a controlled foreign corporation, which 
would be a controlled foreign corporation if section 957(a) were 
applied--
            ``(1) by substituting `foreign controlled United States 
        shareholders' for `United States shareholders', and
            ``(2) by substituting `section 958(b) (other than paragraph 
        (4) thereof)' for `section 958(b)'.
    ``(d) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations 
or other guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
purposes of this section, including regulations or other guidance--
            ``(1) to treat a foreign controlled United States 
        shareholder or a foreign controlled foreign corporation as a 
        United States shareholder or as a controlled foreign 
        corporation, respectively, for purposes of provisions of this 
        title other than this subpart, and
            ``(2) to prevent the avoidance of the purposes of this 
        section.''.
            (2) Section 957(a) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Controlled Foreign Corporation.--For purposes of this title--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `controlled foreign 
        corporation' means any foreign corporation if more than 50 
        percent of--
                    ``(A) the total combined voting power of all 
                classes of stock of such corporation entitled to vote, 
                or
                    ``(B) the total value of the stock of such 
                corporation,
        is owned (within the meaning of section 958(a)), or is 
        considered as owned by applying the rules of ownership of 
        section 958(b), by United States shareholders on any day during 
        the taxable year of such foreign corporation.
            ``(2) Election to treat a foreign corporation as a 
        controlled foreign corporation for certain purposes.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of a foreign 
                corporation with respect to which an election is in 
                effect under this paragraph, such foreign corporation 
                shall be treated as controlled foreign corporation with 
                respect to all United States shareholders of such 
                foreign corporation.
                    ``(B) Exceptions.--Notwithstanding subparagraph 
                (A), such foreign corporation shall not be treated as a 
                controlled foreign corporation for purposes of section 
                951B(c) or for any other purpose if the Secretary 
                determines that treatment of such foreign corporation 
                as a controlled foreign corporation for such purpose 
                would be inconsistent with the purposes of this 
                subchapter.
                    ``(C) Election.--
                            ``(i) By whom.--An election under 
                        subparagraph (A) shall be effective only if 
                        made by the foreign corporation and by all 
                        United States shareholders of such foreign 
                        corporation (determined as of the time of such 
                        election by such foreign corporation).
                            ``(ii) With respect to whom.--Any election 
                        under this paragraph, once effective, shall 
                        apply to such foreign corporation and to all 
                        United States shareholders of such foreign 
                        corporation (including any person who becomes a 
                        United States shareholder of such foreign 
                        corporation after such election takes effect).
                            ``(iii) Time, manner, etc.--The election 
                        under this paragraph shall be made at such time 
                        and in such manner as the Secretary may provide 
                        and, once effective, may be revoked only with 
                        the consent of the Secretary.
                    ``(D) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such 
                regulations or other guidance as may be necessary or 
                appropriate to carry out the purposes of this 
                paragraph, including regulations or other guidance for 
                the application of this paragraph to an acquisition of 
                assets described in section 381(a) from any corporation 
                with respect to which an election under this paragraph 
                applies.''.
            (3) Section 958(b) is amended--
                    (A) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) Subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of section 318(a)(3) 
        shall not be applied so as to consider a United States person 
        as owning stock which is owned by a person who is not a United 
        States person.'', and
                    (B) by striking ``Paragraph (1)'' in the last 
                sentence and inserting ``Paragraphs (1) and (4)''.
            (4) The table of sections for subpart F of part III of 
        subchapter N of chapter 1 is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 951A the following new item:

``Sec. 951B. Amounts included in gross income of foreign controlled 
                            United States shareholders.''.
    (c) Certain Other Modifications.--
            (1) Section 245A(b)(1) is amended by striking ``with 
        respect to such corporation''.
            (2) Section 245A(e)(4) is amended by striking ``an amount 
        received'' and all that follows through ``for which the 
        controlled foreign corporation received a deduction'' and 
        inserting ``any dividend received from a controlled foreign 
        corporation for which such controlled foreign corporation 
        received a deduction''.
            (3) Section 245A(e)(1) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``any dividend'' and inserting 
                ``any hybrid dividend'', and
                    (B) by striking ``if the dividend is a hybrid 
                dividend''.
            (4) Section 245A(g) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(g) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations 
or other guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
provisions of this section, including regulations or other guidance 
for--
            ``(1) the treatment of United States shareholders owning 
        stock of a controlled foreign corporation through a 
        partnership, and
            ``(2) the denial of all or a portion of the deduction under 
        this section with respect to dividends received from foreign 
        corporations in situations in which--
                    ``(A) any portion of the dividend is out of 
                earnings and profits arising from dispositions to 
                related parties which--
                            ``(i) are not made in the ordinary course 
                        of a trade or business, and
                            ``(ii) are made on or after January 1, 
                        2018, and during a taxable year to which 
                        section 951A did not apply, or
                    ``(B) a transfer or issuance of stock on or after 
                January 1, 2018, results in a reduction in the United 
                States shareholder's pro rata share of a controlled 
                foreign corporation's subpart F income or tested income 
                (as defined in section 951A).''.
            (5) Section 246(b)(1) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) General rule.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        the aggregate amount of the deductions allowed by section 
        243(a)(1) and subsection (a) and (b) of section 245 shall not 
        exceed the percentage determined under paragraph (3) of the 
        taxable income computed without regard to the deductions 
        allowed by section 172, section 243(a)(1), subsections (a) and 
        (b) of section 245, and section 250, without regard to any 
        adjustment under section 1059, and without regard to any 
        capital loss carryback to the taxable year under section 
        1212(a)(1).''.
            (6) Section 246(c)(1) is amended by striking ``section 
        243'' and all that follows through ``245A'' and inserting 
        ``section 243, 245, or 245A''.
            (7) For purposes of section 78 of the Internal Revenue Code 
        of 1986, as in effect on the day before the enactment of Public 
        Law 115-97, with respect to taxable years of foreign 
        corporations beginning before January 1, 2018, and ending after 
        December 31, 2017, any reference to section 245 of such Code 
        shall be treated as including a reference to section 245A of 
        such Code (as added by such Public Law).
    (d) Effective Dates.--
            (1) In general.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
        apply to distributions made after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.
            (2) Modifications related to determination of status as a 
        controlled foreign corporation.--The amendments made by 
        subsection (b) shall apply to--
                    (A) the last taxable year of foreign corporations 
                beginning before January 1, 2018, and each subsequent 
                taxable year of such foreign corporations, and
                    (B) taxable years of United States persons in which 
                or with which such taxable years of foreign 
                corporations end.
            (3) Certain other modifications.--The amendments made by 
        subsection (c) shall apply to distributions made after December 
        31, 2017.

SEC. 138129. LIMITATION ON FOREIGN BASE COMPANY SALES AND SERVICES 
              INCOME.

    (a) Foreign Base Company Sales Income.--Section 954(d)(2) is 
amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) Limitation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of this subsection, 
                the term `related person' shall not include any person 
                unless such person is a taxable unit (within the 
                meaning of section 904(e)) which is a tax resident of 
                the United States.
                    ``(B) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such 
                regulations or other guidance as may be necessary or 
                appropriate to carry out the purposes of this 
                paragraph, including regulations or other guidance 
                providing for the proper application of subparagraph 
                (A) in the case of a series of transactions in which a 
                person described in subparagraph (A) is a party.''.
    (b) Foreign Base Company Services Income.--Section 954(e)(1)(A) is 
amended by striking ``subsection (d)(3)'' and inserting ``subsection 
(d)''.
    (c) Certain Other Modifications.--
            (1)(A) Section 951(a)(1) is amended--
                    (i) by striking ``the last day'' in the matter 
                preceding subparagraph (A) and inserting ``any day'',
                    (ii) by striking ``his'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``such shareholder's'', and
                    (iii) by inserting ``if such shareholder owns 
                (within the meaning of section 958(a)) stock of such 
                foreign corporation as of the close of the last 
                relevant day of such foreign corporation's taxable 
                year,'' before ``the amount'' in subparagraph (B).
            (B) Section 951(a) is amended by striking paragraph (2) and 
        inserting the following new paragraphs:
            ``(2) Pro rata share of subpart f income.--In the case of 
        any United States shareholder with respect to a foreign 
        corporation, the pro rata share referred to in paragraph (1)(A) 
        is the sum of--
                    ``(A) if such shareholder owns (within the meaning 
                of section 958(a)) stock of such foreign corporation as 
                of the close of the last relevant day of such foreign 
                corporation's taxable year, such shareholder's general 
                pro rata share determined under paragraph (3), plus
                    ``(B) if such shareholder owns (within the meaning 
                of section 958(a)) stock of such foreign corporation 
                during such taxable year but does not own (within the 
                meaning of section 958(a)) such stock as of the close 
                of such last relevant day, such shareholder's nontaxed 
                current dividend share determined under paragraph (4).
            ``(3) General pro rata share.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of any United States 
                shareholder with respect to a foreign corporation, the 
                general pro rata share determined under this paragraph 
                is the excess (if any) of--
                            ``(i) the pro rata current earnings 
                        percentage of the amount which bears the same 
                        ratio to such corporation's subpart F income 
                        for the taxable year (reduced by the aggregate 
                        nontaxed current dividend shares determined 
                        under paragraph (4) with respect to such 
                        shareholder or any other United States 
                        shareholder) as the part of such year during 
                        which such corporation is a controlled foreign 
                        corporation bears to the entire year, over
                            ``(ii) the lesser of--
                                    ``(I) the amount of any pre-holding 
                                period dividends with respect to stock 
                                of such foreign corporation which such 
                                shareholder owns (within the meaning of 
                                section 958(a)) as of the close of the 
                                last relevant day of such foreign 
                                corporation's taxable year, or
                                    ``(II) the amount which bears the 
                                same ratio to the subpart F income of 
                                such corporation for the taxable year 
                                (reduced by the aggregate nontaxed 
                                current dividend shares determined 
                                under paragraph (4) with respect to 
                                such shareholder or any other United 
                                States shareholder) as the part of such 
                                year during which such shareholder did 
                                not own (within the meaning of section 
                                958(a)) such stock bears to the entire 
                                year.
                    ``(B) Pro rata current earnings percentage.--For 
                purposes of subparagraph (A)(i), the term `pro rata 
                current earnings percentage' means, in the case of any 
                United States shareholder with respect to a foreign 
                corporation for any taxable year of such foreign 
                corporation, the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of--
                            ``(i) the amount which would have been 
                        distributed with respect to the stock which 
                        such shareholder owns (within the meaning of 
                        section 958(a)) in such corporation if on the 
                        last relevant day of such taxable year it had 
                        distributed its earnings and profits for such 
                        taxable year (computed as of the close of such 
                        taxable year without diminution by reason of 
                        any distributions made during such taxable 
                        year), divided by
                            ``(ii) such corporation's earnings and 
                        profits for such taxable year (as so computed).
                    ``(C) Pre-holding period dividends.--For purposes 
                of subparagraph (A)(ii)(I), the term `pre-holding 
                period dividends' means, in the case of any United 
                States shareholder with respect to a foreign 
                corporation for any taxable year of such foreign 
                corporation, dividends which are--
                            ``(i) made out of such corporation's 
                        earnings and profits for the taxable year 
                        (other than nontaxed current dividends as 
                        defined in paragraph (4)(C)), and
                            ``(ii) received--
                                    ``(I) by any other United States 
                                person with respect to stock of such 
                                foreign corporation which such 
                                shareholder owns (within the meaning of 
                                section 958(a)) as of the close of the 
                                last relevant day of such foreign 
                                corporation's taxable year, and
                                    ``(II) while such foreign 
                                corporation was a controlled foreign 
                                corporation and before such shareholder 
                                owned (within the meaning of section 
                                958(a)) such stock.
            ``(4) Nontaxed current dividend share.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of any United States 
                shareholder with respect to a foreign corporation, the 
                nontaxed current dividend share determined under this 
                paragraph is the nontaxed current dividend percentage 
                of the subpart F income of such foreign corporation for 
                the taxable year.
                    ``(B) Nontaxed current dividend percentage.--For 
                purposes of this paragraph, the term `nontaxed current 
                dividend percentage' means, in the case of any United 
                States shareholder with respect to a foreign 
                corporation for any taxable year of such foreign 
                corporation, the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of--
                            ``(i) the amount of nontaxed current 
                        dividends with respect to such taxable year 
                        received with respect to the stock of such 
                        foreign corporation which such shareholder owns 
                        (within the meaning of section 958(a)) at the 
                        time of the dividend on a day in which such 
                        corporation is a controlled foreign 
                        corporation, divided by
                            ``(ii) such foreign corporation's earnings 
                        and profits for such taxable year (computed as 
                        of the close of such taxable year without 
                        diminution by reason of any distributions made 
                        during such taxable year).
                    ``(C) Nontaxed current dividends.--For purposes of 
                this paragraph, the term `nontaxed current dividends' 
                means the portion of any amount received with respect 
                to stock to the extent such amount (without regard to 
                amounts included in the gross income of a United States 
                shareholder for the taxable year by reason of this 
                subpart)--
                            ``(i) would result in a dividend out of the 
                        corporation's earnings and profits for the 
                        taxable year (including a dividend under 
                        section 1248 attributable to earnings and 
                        profits for the taxable year), and
                            ``(ii) either--
                                    ``(I) would give rise to a 
                                deduction under section 245A(a), or
                                    ``(II) in the case of a dividend 
                                paid directly or indirectly to a 
                                controlled foreign corporation with 
                                respect to stock owned by the 
                                shareholder within the meaning of 
                                section 958(a)(2), would not result in 
                                subpart F income with respect to such 
                                controlled foreign corporation by 
                                reason of subsection (b)(4), (c)(3), or 
                                (c)(6) of section 954.
                        Any amount treated as the foreign-source 
                        portion of a dividend under section 245A(g) 
                        shall be treated as nontaxed current dividends 
                        for purposes of this paragraph.
            ``(5) Last relevant day of taxable year of a controlled 
        foreign corporation.--For purposes of this subsection, the term 
        `last relevant day' means, with respect to any taxable year of 
        a foreign corporation, the last day of such taxable year on 
        which such corporation is a controlled foreign corporation.
            ``(6) Regulations.--The Secretary may prescribe such 
        regulations or other guidance as may be necessary or 
        appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subsection, 
        including regulations or other guidance--
                    ``(A) to treat a partnership as an aggregate of its 
                partners,
                    ``(B) to provide rules allowing a foreign 
                corporation to close its taxable year upon a change in 
                ownership, and
                    ``(C) to treat a distribution followed by an 
                issuance of stock to a shareholder not subject to tax 
                under this chapter in the same manner as an acquisition 
                of stock.''.
            (C) Section 951A(e)(1) is amended by striking ``determined 
        under the rules of section 951(a)(2) in the same manner as such 
        section applies to subpart F income'' and inserting 
        ``determined under rules similar to the rules of section 
        951(a)(2)''.
            (D) Section 951A(e)(2) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) Treatment as united states shareholder.--A person 
        shall be treated as a United States shareholder of a controlled 
        foreign corporation for any taxable year of such person if such 
        person--
                    ``(A) is a United States shareholder of such 
                foreign corporation on any day in such taxable year, 
                and
                    ``(B) owns (within the meaning of section 958(a)) 
                stock in such foreign corporation on any day in such 
                taxable year which is part of a taxable year of such 
                foreign corporation with respect to which such foreign 
                corporation is a controlled foreign corporation.''.
            (E) Section 953(c)(5)(A)(i) is amended--
                    (i) in subclause (I), by adding ``and'' at the end,
                    (ii) in subclause (II)--
                            (I) by striking ``on the last day of the 
                        taxable year'' and inserting ``during the 
                        taxable year'', and
                            (II) by striking ``and'' at the end and 
                        inserting ``or'', and
                    (iii) by striking subclause (III).
            (2) Section 78 is amended by striking ``, (b),''.
    (d) Certain Related Prospective Modifications.--Section 961(c) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Basis Adjustments in'' in the heading of 
        such subsection and inserting ``Application of Rules to'', and
            (2) by striking ``then adjustments similar to'' and all 
        that follows in such subsection and inserting ``then rules 
        similar to the rules of subsections (a) and (b) shall apply 
        to--
            ``(1) such stock,
            ``(2) stock in any other controlled foreign corporation by 
        reason of which the United States shareholder is considered 
        under section 958(a)(2) as owning the stock described in 
        paragraph (1), and
            ``(3) property by reason of which the United States 
        shareholder is considered as owning stock described in 
        paragraph (1) or (2).
The preceding sentence shall not apply with respect to any stock or 
property to which subsection (a) or (b) applies.''.
    (e) Effective Dates.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the amendments made by this section shall apply to 
        taxable years of foreign corporations beginning after December 
        31, 2021, and to taxable years of United States shareholders in 
        which or with which such taxable years of foreign corporations 
        end.
            (2) Certain other modifications.--
                    (A) The amendments made by subsection (c)(1) shall 
                apply to distributions made after December 31, 2017.
                    (B) The amendment made by subsection (c)(2) apply 
                to taxable years of foreign corporations beginning 
                after December 31, 2017, and to taxable years of United 
                States shareholders in which or with which such taxable 
                years of foreign corporations end.

## Subpart D - Inbound International Provisions

SEC. 138131. MODIFICATIONS TO BASE EROSION AND ANTI-ABUSE TAX.

    (a) Modifications to Base Erosion Minimum Tax Amount.--
            (1) Modification of rates.--Section 59A(b)(1)(A) is amended 
        by striking ``10 percent (5 percent in the case of taxable 
        years beginning in calendar year 2018)'' and inserting ``the 
        applicable percentage''.
            (2) Base erosion minimum tax amount determined without 
        regard to credits.--Section 59A(b)(1)(B) is amended to read as 
        follows:
                    ``(B) an amount equal to the regular tax liability 
                (as defined in section 26(b)) of the taxpayer for the 
                taxable year.''.
            (3) Applicable percentage.--Section 59A(b)(2) is amended to 
        read as follows:
            ``(2) Applicable percentage.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term applicable percentage means--
                    ``(A) in the case of any taxable year beginning 
                after December 31, 2021, and before January 1, 2024, 10 
                percent,
                    ``(B) in the case of any taxable year beginning 
                after December 31, 2023, and before January 1, 2026, 
                12.5 percent, and
                    ``(C) in the case of any taxable year beginning 
                after December 31, 2025, 15 percent.''.
            (4) Taxpayers subject to rules for banks and securities 
        dealers.--Section 59A(b)(3)(B) is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(B) Taxpayer described.--A taxpayer is described 
                in this subparagraph if such taxpayer is--
                            ``(i) a bank (as defined in section 
                        585(a)(2)),
                            ``(ii) a securities dealer registered under 
                        section 15(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
                        1934, or
                            ``(iii) a member of an affiliated group (as 
                        defined in section 1504(a)(1), determined 
                        without regard to section 1504(b)(3)) which 
                        includes any person described in clause (i) or 
                        (ii).''.
            (5) General business credit allowed against base erosion 
        and anti-abuse tax.--Section 38(c)(1) is amended by striking 
        ``the tax imposed by section 55'' and inserting ``the taxes 
        imposed by sections 55 and 59A''.
            (6) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Section 59A(b)(3)(A) is amended by striking 
                ``paragraphs (1)(A) and (2)(A) shall each'' and 
                inserting ``paragraph (2) shall''.
                    (B) Section 59A(b) is amended by striking paragraph 
                (4).
    (b) Modification of Rules for Determining Modified Taxable 
Income.--
            (1) In general.--Section 59A(c) is amended to read as 
        follows:
    ``(c) Modified Taxable Income.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `modified taxable income' means 
        the taxable income of the taxpayer computed under this chapter 
        for the taxable year with the following adjustments:
                    ``(A) Base erosion tax benefits.--Any base erosion 
                tax benefit shall be determined without regard to any 
                base erosion payment described in paragraphs (1) 
                through (4) of subsection (d), including for purposes 
                of determining the adjusted basis of property described 
                in subsection (d)(2).
                    ``(B) Base erosion basis adjustments with respect 
                to cost of goods sold.--Cost of goods sold shall be 
                determined without regard to any base erosion payment 
                described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection 
                (d)(5).
                    ``(C) Net operating losses.--The net operating loss 
                deduction for the taxable year under section 172 shall 
                be applied--
                            ``(i) by substituting `modified taxable 
                        income' for `taxable income' in subsection 
                        (a)(2)(B)(ii)(I) thereof,
                            ``(ii) by determining any net operating 
                        loss arising in any taxable year beginning 
                        after December 31, 2021, without regard to any 
                        deduction which is a base erosion tax benefit 
                        (determined with respect to each such taxable 
                        year), and
                            ``(iii) by making appropriate adjustments 
                        in the application of subsection (b)(2) thereof 
                        to take into account clause (i) of this 
                        subparagraph as though such clause applied with 
                        respect to taxable years beginning after 
                        December 31, 2021 (but by applying section 
                        172(e) for purposes of determining the amount 
                        of modified taxable income).
                    ``(D) Application of certain other adjustments.--
                Except as otherwise provided by the Secretary, rules 
                similar to the rules of subsections (g) and (h) of 
                section 59 shall apply.
            ``(2) Base erosion tax benefit.--The term `base erosion tax 
        benefit' means--
                    ``(A) any deduction allowed under this chapter for 
                the taxable year with respect to any base erosion 
                payment described in subsection (d)(1),
                    ``(B) in the case of a base erosion payment 
                described in subsection (d)(2), any deduction allowed 
                under this chapter for the taxable year for 
                depreciation (or amortization in lieu of depreciation) 
                with respect to the property acquired with such 
                payment,
                    ``(C) in the case of a base erosion payment 
                described in subsection (d)(3)--
                            ``(i) any reduction under section 
                        803(a)(1)(B) in the gross amount of premiums 
                        and other consideration on insurance and 
                        annuity contracts for premiums and other 
                        consideration arising out of indemnity 
                        insurance, and
                            ``(ii) any deduction under section 
                        832(b)(4)(A) from the amount of gross premiums 
                        written on insurance contracts during the 
                        taxable year for premiums paid for reinsurance, 
                        and
                    ``(D) in the case of a base erosion payment 
                described in subsection (d)(4), any reduction in gross 
                receipts with respect to such payment in computing 
                gross income of the taxpayer for the taxable year for 
                purposes of this chapter.''.
            (2) Certain payments with respect to inventory treated as 
        base erosion payments.--Section 59A(d) is amended by 
        redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6) and by inserting 
        after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Certain payments with respect to inventory.--
                    ``(A) Indirect costs included in inventory under 
                section 263A.--Such term shall also include any amount 
                paid or accrued by the taxpayer to a foreign person 
                which is a related party of the taxpayer if such amount 
                is described in paragraph (2)(B) of section 263A(a) and 
                required to be included in inventory costs of the 
                taxpayer under paragraph (1)(A) of such section.
                    ``(B) Certain indirect costs of foreign related 
                parties.--Such term shall also include so much of any 
                amount paid or accrued by the taxpayer to a foreign 
                person which is a related party of the taxpayer in 
                connection with the acquisition by the taxpayer from 
                such foreign person of property which is inventory in 
                the hands of the taxpayer as exceeds the sum of--
                            ``(i) the direct costs of such property in 
                        the hands of such foreign person, plus
                            ``(ii) so much of the costs described in 
                        section 263A(a)(2)(B) with respect to such 
                        property in the hands of such foreign person as 
                        the taxpayer demonstrates to the satisfaction 
                        of the Secretary are attributable to amounts--
                                    ``(I) paid or accrued by such 
                                foreign person to a United States 
                                person or a person which is not a 
                                related party of the taxpayer, or
                                    ``(II) otherwise subject to the tax 
                                imposed by this subtitle.
                    ``(C) Application to tiered related-party 
                transactions.--In the case of direct costs otherwise 
                described in clause (i) of subparagraph (B) which are 
                paid or incurred by the foreign person referred to in 
                such clause to another foreign person which is a 
                related party of the taxpayer, such costs shall be 
                taken into account under such clause only to the extent 
                that the taxpayer demonstrates to the satisfaction of 
                the Secretary that such costs are attributable to 
                amounts paid or accrued (directly or indirectly) to a 
                United States person or a person which is not a related 
                party of the taxpayer.
                    ``(D) Safe harbor with respect indirect costs of 
                foreign related parties.--In the case of a taxpayer 
                which elects the application of this subparagraph (at 
                such time, in such manner, and with respect to such 
                inventory property, as the Secretary may provide), the 
                amount described in subparagraph (B)(ii) with respect 
                to such property shall be treated for purposes of this 
                section as being equal to 20 percent of the amount paid 
                or incurred by the taxpayer to the related party of the 
                taxpayer in connection with the acquisition of such 
                property.''.
            (3) Expansion and consolidation of rules to exempt certain 
        payments from treatment as base erosion payments.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 59A is amended by 
                redesignating subsection (i) as subsection (j) and by 
                inserting after subsection (h) the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(i) Certain Payment Not Treated as Base Erosion Payments.--
            ``(1) Exception for payments on which tax is imposed.--An 
        amount shall not be treated as a base erosion payment if tax is 
        imposed by this subtitle with respect to such amount. The 
        amount not treated as a base erosion payment by reason of the 
        preceding sentence shall be determined under rules similar to 
        the rules of section 163(j)(5) (as in effect before the date of 
        the enactment of Public Law 115-97).
            ``(2) Exception for certain payments subject to sufficient 
        foreign tax.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An amount shall not be treated 
                as a base erosion payment if the taxpayer establishes 
                to the satisfaction of the Secretary that such amount 
                was subject to an effective rate of foreign income tax 
                (as defined in section 904(d)(2)(F)) which is not less 
                than the applicable percentage in effect under 
                subsection (b)(2) for the taxable year in which such 
                amount is paid or accrued. Except as otherwise provided 
                by the Secretary under subparagraph (B), the effective 
                rate of foreign income tax with respect to any amount 
                may be established on the basis of applicable financial 
                statements (as defined in section 451(b)(3)).
                    ``(B) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such 
                regulations or other guidance as may be necessary or 
                appropriate to carry out the purposes of this 
                paragraph, including regulations or other guidance 
                providing procedures for determining the effective rate 
                of foreign income tax to which any amount is subject. 
                Such procedures may require that any transaction or 
                series of transactions among multiple parties be 
                recharacterized as one or more transactions directly 
                among any 2 or more of such parties where the Secretary 
                determines that such recharacterization is appropriate 
                to carry out, or prevent avoidance of, the purposes of 
                this section.
            ``(3) Exception for certain amounts with respect to 
        services.--Subsections (d)(1) and (d)(5)(A) shall not apply to 
        so much of any amount paid or accrued by a taxpayer for 
        services as does not exceed the total services cost of such 
        services. The preceding sentence shall not apply unless such 
        services meet the requirements for eligibility for use of the 
        services cost method under section 482 (determined without 
        regard to the requirement that the services not contribute 
        significantly to fundamental risks of business success or 
        failure).''.
                    (B) Conforming amendment.--Section 59A(d), as 
                amended by paragraph (2), is amended by striking 
                paragraph (6).
    (c) Repeal of Exemption From Base Erosion and Anti-abuse Tax for 
Taxpayers With Low Base Erosion Percentage.--Section 59A(e)(1)(C) is 
amended by inserting ``in the case of any taxable year beginning before 
January 1, 2024,'' before ``the base erosion percentage''.
    (d) Other Modifications.--
            (1) Section 59A(h)(2)(B) is amended by striking ``section 
        6038B(b)(2)'' and inserting ``section 6038A(b)(2)''.
            (2) Section 59A(j)(2), as redesignated by subsection (b), 
        is amended by striking ``subsection (g)(3)'' and inserting 
        ``subsection (h)(3)''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

## Subpart E - Other Business Tax Provisions

SEC. 138141. CREDIT FOR CLINICAL TESTING OF ORPHAN DRUGS LIMITED TO 
              FIRST USE OR INDICATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 45C(b)(2)(B) is amended to read as 
follows:
                    ``(B) Testing must be related to first use or 
                indication for rare disease or condition.--Human 
                clinical testing may be taken into account under 
                subparagraph (A) only to the extent such testing is 
                related to the first use or indication with respect to 
                which a drug for a rare disease or condition is 
                designated under section 526 of the Federal Food, Drug, 
                and Cosmetic Act.''.
    (b) Eligible Testing Must Be Conducted Before Approval for Any Use 
or Indication.--Section 45C(b)(2)(A)(ii)(II) is amended to read as 
follows:
                                    ``(II) before the first date on 
                                which an application (with respect to 
                                any use or indication with respect to 
                                any disease or condition) with respect 
                                to such drug is approved under section 
                                505(c) of such Act or, if the drug is a 
                                biological product, before the first 
                                date on which a license (with respect 
                                to any use or indication with respect 
                                to any disease or condition) for such 
                                drug is issued under section 351(a) of 
                                the Public Health Service Act, and''.
    (c) Eligibility of Biological Products.--
            (1) In general.--Section 45C(b)(2)(A)(i) is amended by 
        inserting ``or, if the drug is a biological product, section 
        351(a)(3) of the Public Health Service Act'' before the comma 
        at the end.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 45C(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I) is 
        amended by striking ``such Act'' and inserting ``the Federal 
        Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138142. MODIFICATIONS TO TREATMENT OF CERTAIN LOSSES.

    (a) Losses From Certain Capital Assets Which Become Worthless.--
            (1) When treated as loss.--Section 165(g)(1) is amended by 
        striking ``on the last day of the taxable year'' and inserting 
        ``at the time of the identifiable event establishing 
        worthlessness''.
            (2) Treatment of partnership indebtedness.--Section 
        165(g)(2)(C) is amended by inserting ``, by a partnership,'' 
        after ``by a corporation''.
            (3) Treatment of partnership interest.--Section 165 is 
        amended by redesignating subsection (m) as subsection (n) and 
        by inserting after subsection (l) the following new subsection:
    ``(m) Worthless Partnership Interest.--If any interest in a 
partnership becomes worthless during the taxable year, the loss 
resulting therefrom shall, for purposes of this subtitle, be treated as 
a loss from the sale or exchange of the interest in the partnership, as 
provided in section 741, at the time of the identifiable event 
establishing worthlessness.''.
    (b) Deferral of Losses in Certain Controlled Group Corporate 
Liquidations.--Section 267 is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(h) Deferral of Losses in Certain Controlled Group 
Liquidations.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of two corporations 
        described in subsection (b)(3), no loss shall be recognized on 
        the stock or securities of the liquidating corporation in a 
        complete liquidation to which section 331 applies until the 
        other corporation receiving property distributed in such 
        liquidation with respect to such stock or in exchange for such 
        securities has disposed of substantially all property such 
        other corporation received in such liquidation to one or more 
        persons who are not related to such other corporation (within 
        the meaning of subsection (b)(3) or section 707(b)(1)).
            ``(2) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such 
        regulations or other guidance as the Secretary determines is 
        necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this 
        subsection, including to apply the principles of this 
        subsection to liquidating corporation stock or securities owned 
        by a corporation indirectly through 1 or more partnerships.''.
    (c) Cross Reference.--Section 331(c) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Cross Reference'' and all that follows 
        through ``For general rule'' and inserting the following: 
        ``Cross Reference.--
            ``(1) For general rule'', and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) For losses in controlled group liquidations, see 
        section 267(h).''.
    (d) Effective Date.--
            (1) Subsection (a).--The amendments made by this section 
        shall apply to losses arising in taxable years beginning after 
        December 31, 2021.
            (2) Subsection (b).--The amendment made by subsection (b) 
        shall apply to liquidations on or after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.

SEC. 138143. ADJUSTED BASIS LIMITATION FOR DIVISIVE REORGANIZATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 361 is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsections:
    ``(d) Adjusted Basis Limitation for Divisive Reorganizations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided paragraph (2), in the 
        case of a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(D) with 
        respect to which stock or securities of the controlled 
        corporation (within the meaning of section 355) are distributed 
        by the distributing corporation (within the meaning of such 
        section) in a transaction which qualifies under such section, 
        subsection (b)(3) and subsection (c)(3) shall not apply to so 
        much of the money and other property transferred to creditors 
        as equals an amount equal to the excess (if any) of--
                    ``(A) the sum of--
                            ``(i) the total amount of the liabilities 
                        assumed (within the meaning of section 357(c)) 
                        by the controlled corporation,
                            ``(ii) in the case of subsection (b)(3), 
                        the total amount of money and the fair market 
                        value of other property (including stock 
                        described in section 354(a)(2)(C)) transferred 
                        to the creditors, and
                            ``(iii) in the case of subsection (c)(3), 
                        the total principal amount of securities of the 
                        controlled corporation which is qualified 
                        property (as defined in subsection (c)(2)(B)) 
                        transferred to the creditors, over
                    ``(B) the total adjusted bases of the assets 
                transferred by the distributing corporation to the 
                controlled corporation.
            ``(2) Exception regarding certain stock or rights to 
        acquire stock.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any stock (or 
        right to acquire stock) described in subsection (c)(2)(B).
            ``(3) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such 
        regulations as may be necessary or appropriate to prevent 
        avoidance of tax through abuse of subsection (b)(3), subsection 
        (c)(3), or this subsection, including to determine whether a 
        disposition of property or any other transaction is in 
        connection with the reorganization or pursuant to the plan of 
        reorganization.
    ``(e) Cross-references.--For provisions providing for the inclusion 
of income or recognition of gain in certain distributions, see 
subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) of section 355.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 361(b)(3) is amended--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by inserting ``, and 
                except as provided in subsection (d)'' after 
                ``paragraph (1)'', and
                    (B) by striking the second and third sentences.
            (2) Section 361(c) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``, and except 
                as provided in subsection (d)'' after ``this 
                subsection'', and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (5).
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to reorganizations occurring on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 138144. RENTS FROM PRISON FACILITIES NOT TREATED AS QUALIFIED 
              INCOME FOR PURPOSES OF REIT INCOME TESTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 856(d)(2) is amended by striking ``and'' 
at the end of subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end of 
subparagraph (C) and inserting ``, and'', and by adding at the end the 
following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) any amount received or accrued, directly or 
                indirectly, with respect to any real or personal 
                property which is primarily used in connection with any 
                correctional, detention, or penal facility.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138145. MODIFICATIONS TO EXEMPTION FOR PORTFOLIO INTEREST.

    (a) In General.--Section 871(h)(3)(B)(i) is amended to read as 
follows:
                            ``(i) in the case of an obligation issued 
                        by a corporation--
                                    ``(I) any person who owns 10 
                                percent or more of the total combined 
                                voting power of all classes of stock of 
                                such corporation entitled to vote, or
                                    ``(II) any person who owns 10 
                                percent or more of the total value of 
                                the stock of such corporation, and''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to obligations issued after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 138146. CERTAIN PARTNERSHIP INTEREST DERIVATIVES.

    (a) In General.--Section 871(m) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraphs:
            ``(8) Specified partnership interest income equivalent 
        payments.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of this subsection, 
                any payment made pursuant to a sale-repurchase 
                transaction, or a specified notional principal 
                contract, that is determined by reference to any income 
                or gain in respect of an interest in a specified 
                partnership (or any other payment the Secretary 
                determines to be substantially similar) shall be 
                treated as a dividend equivalent.
                    ``(B) Specified partnership.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, the term `specified partnership' means--
                            ``(i) any publicly-traded partnership (as 
                        defined in subsection (b) of section 7704) 
                        which is not treated as a corporation under 
                        such section, or
                            ``(ii) any other partnership as the 
                        Secretary may by regulation prescribe.
                    ``(C) Exceptions.--
                            ``(i) Excepted contracts.--Subparagraph (A) 
                        shall not apply to any contract or transaction 
                        the Secretary determines does not have the 
                        potential for tax avoidance.
                            ``(ii) Certain income.--Under such 
                        regulations as the Secretary shall prescribe, 
                        there shall not be taken into account under 
                        subparagraph (A) any payment the income or gain 
                        from which would (but for this paragraph) be--
                                    ``(I) exempt from taxes under this 
                                subtitle, or
                                    ``(II) treated as income from 
                                sources without the United States if 
                                paid to a nonresident alien individual.
                    ``(D) Treatment of definitions and special rules 
                with respect to partnerships.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, rules similar to the rules and definitions 
                in paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6) and (7) shall apply to 
                an interest in a specified partnership in a manner 
                similar to an underlying security, and to income or 
                gain in respect of an interest in a specified 
                partnership in a manner similar to a dividend.
            ``(9) Other rules relating to treatment of dividend 
        equivalents.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A dividend equivalent amount 
                under this subsection shall be treated as a dividend 
                paid by a domestic corporation.
                    ``(B) Rate of tax for publicly traded partnership 
                income payments.--In the case of a payment treated as a 
                dividend equivalent pursuant to paragraph (8), the rate 
                of tax imposed on any nonresident alien individual or 
                foreign corporation with respect to such payment shall 
                not be less than the rate that would be imposed had 
                such individual or foreign corporation, as the case may 
                be, received a dividend from a domestic corporation in 
                which such individual or foreign corporation owned less 
                than 1 percent (by vote or value) of the stock.''.
    (b) Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens.--Section 1441 is 
amended by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h) and by 
inserting after subsection (f) the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Deemed Dividend Equivalent Payments in Case of Certain 
Publicly Traded Partnerships.--The Secretary may prescribe regulations, 
under rules similar to the rules of section 1446(f), to determine the 
manner in which the amount of income and gain is determined for 
purposes of this section in the case of amounts treated as a dividend 
equivalent under section 871(m)(8).''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to payments made on or after the date that is 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 138147. ADJUSTMENTS TO EARNINGS AND PROFITS OF CONTROLLED FOREIGN 
              CORPORATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 312(n) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(9) Special rules for controlled foreign corporations.--
        Earnings and profits of any controlled foreign corporation 
        shall be determined without regard to paragraphs (4), (5), and 
        (6).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 952(c) is amended by striking 
paragraph (3).
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years of foreign corporations beginning after December 
31, 2021, and to taxable years of United States shareholders in which 
or with which such taxable years of foreign corporations end.

SEC. 138148. CERTAIN DIVIDENDS FROM CONTROLLED FOREIGN CORPORATIONS TO 
              UNITED STATES SHAREHOLDERS TREATED AS EXTRAORDINARY 
              DIVIDENDS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1059 is amended by redesignating 
subsection (g) as subsection (h) and by inserting after subsection (f) 
the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Treatment of Certain Dividends From Controlled Foreign 
Corporations to United States Shareholders.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided by the 
        Secretary, any disqualified CFC dividend shall be treated as an 
        extraordinary dividend to which paragraph (1) and (2) of 
        subsection (a) applies without regard to the period the 
        taxpayer held the stock with respect to which such dividend is 
        paid.
            ``(2) Disqualified cfc dividend.-- For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `disqualified CFC dividend' means any 
        dividend paid by a controlled foreign corporation to a taxpayer 
        which is a United States shareholder of such foreign 
        corporation if--
                    ``(A) such dividend is attributable to earnings and 
                profits which--
                            ``(i) were earned by such controlled 
                        foreign corporation during a disqualified 
                        period, or
                            ``(ii) are attributable to gain on property 
                        which accrued during a disqualified period.
            ``(3) Disqualified period.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `disqualified period' means, with respect 
        to any dividend paid with respect to any stock of a controlled 
        foreign corporation, any period during which--
                    ``(A) such foreign corporation was not a controlled 
                foreign corporation, or
                    ``(B) such stock was not owned by a United States 
                shareholder.''.
    (b) Regulations.--Section 1059(h), as redesignated by subsection 
(a), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``regulations'' both places it appears and 
        inserting ``regulations or other guidance'', and
            (2) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (1), by 
        striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting 
        ``, and'', and by adding at the end the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(3) providing for the coordination of subsection (g) with 
        the other provisions of this chapter, including section 
        1248.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to distributions made after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 138149. MODIFICATION OF RULES FOR PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS HELD IN 
              CONNECTION WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Section 1061 is amended by striking subsections 
(a) and (b) and inserting the following new subsections:
    ``(a) In General.--If one or more applicable partnership interests 
are held by a taxpayer at any time during the taxable year, the 
taxpayer's net applicable partnership gain for such taxable year shall 
be treated as short-term capital gain.
    ``(b) Net Applicable Partnership Gain.--For purposes of this 
section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `net applicable partnership 
        gain' means--
                    ``(A) the taxpayer's net long-term capital gain 
                determined by only taking into account gains and losses 
                with respect to one or more applicable partnership 
                interests described in subsection (a), and
                    ``(B) any other amounts which are--
                            ``(i) includible in the gross income of the 
                        taxpayer with respect to one or more such 
                        applicable partnership interests, and
                            ``(ii) treated as capital gain or subject 
                        to tax at the rate applicable to capital gain.
            ``(2) Holding period exception.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Net applicable partnership gain 
                shall be determined without regard to any amount which 
                is realized after the date that is 5 years after the 
                latest of:
                            ``(i) The date on which the taxpayer 
                        acquired substantially all of the applicable 
                        partnership interest with respect to which the 
                        amount is realized.
                            ``(ii) The date on which the partnership in 
                        which such applicable partnership interest is 
                        held acquired substantially all of the assets 
                        held by such partnership.
                            ``(iii) If the partnership described in 
                        clause (i) owns, directly or indirectly, 
                        interests in one or more other partnerships, 
                        the dates determined by applying rules similar 
                        to the rules in clauses (i) and (ii) in the 
                        case of each such other partnership.
                    ``(B) Shorter holding period in certain 
                circumstances.--Subparagraph (A) shall be applied by 
                substituting `3 years' for `5 years' in the case of--
                            ``(i) a taxpayer (other than a trust or 
                        estate) with an adjusted gross income 
                        (determined without regard to sections 911, 931 
                        and 933) of less than $400,000, and
                            ``(ii) any income with respect to any 
                        applicable partnership interest that is 
                        attributable to a real property trade or 
                        business within the meaning of section 
                        469(c)(7)(C).
                            ``(iii) The Secretary is directed to 
                        provide guidance regarding determination of the 
                        amount described in subsection (a) as applied 
                        in paragraph (1) hereof, and any necessary and 
                        appropriate reporting by any partnership to 
                        carry out the purposes of this section. --
            ``(3) Section 83 to not apply.--This section shall be 
        applied without regard to section 83 and any election in effect 
        under section 83(b).
            ``(4) Special rule.--To the extent provided by the 
        Secretary, subsection (a) shall not apply to income or gain 
        attributable to any asset not held for portfolio investment on 
        behalf of third party investors.''.
    (b) Modifications Related to Definition of Applicable Partnership 
Interest.--Section 1061(c) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``to such other entity'' 
        and inserting ``with respect to a trade or business that is not 
        an applicable trade or business'',
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``an interest in a 
        partnership to the extent of the partnership's proportionate 
        interest in any of the foregoing'' and inserting ``except as 
        otherwise provided by the Secretary, an interest in a 
        partnership if such partnership has a direct or indirect 
        interest in any of the foregoing'', and
            (3) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by striking ``The term'' and inserting ``Except 
                as otherwise provided by the Secretary, the term'', and
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                ``corporation'' and inserting ``C corporation''.
    (c) Recognition of Gain on Transfers of Applicable Partnership 
Interests to Unrelated Parties.--Section 1061(d) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(d) Transfer of Applicable Partnership Interest.--If a taxpayer 
transfers any applicable partnership interest, gain shall be recognized 
notwithstanding any other provision of this subtitle.''.
    (d) Regulations.--Section 1061(e) is amended by striking the period 
at the end and inserting the following: ``, including regulations or 
other guidance to--
            ``(1) to prevent the avoidance of the purposes of this 
        section, including through the distribution of property by a 
        partnership and through carry waivers, and
            ``(2) to provide for the application of this section to 
        financial instruments, contracts or interests in entities other 
        than partnerships to the extent necessary or appropriate to 
        carry out the purposes of this section.''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138150. LIMITATION ON CERTAIN SPECIAL RULES FOR SECTION 1202 
              GAINS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1202(a) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Limitation on certain special rules.--In the case of 
        the sale or exchange of qualified small business stock after 
        September 13, 2021, paragraphs (3) and (4) shall not apply to 
        any taxpayer if--
                    ``(A) the adjusted gross income of such taxpayer 
                (determined without regard to this section and sections 
                911, 931, and 933) equals or exceeds $400,000, or
                    ``(B) such taxpayer is a trust or estate.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Except as provided in subsection (c), the 
amendment made by this section shall apply to sales and exchanges on or 
after September 13, 2021.
    (c) Binding Contract Exception.--The amendment made by this section 
shall not apply to any sale or exchange which is made pursuant to 
written binding contract which was in effect on September 12, 2021, and 
is not modified in any material respect thereafter.

SEC. 138151. CONSTRUCTIVE SALES.

    (a) Application to Appreciated Digital Assets.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1259(b)(1) is amended by inserting 
        ``digital asset,'' after ``debt instrument,''.
            (2) Digital asset.--Section 1259(d) is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Digital asset.--Except as otherwise provided by the 
        Secretary, the term `digital asset' means any digital 
        representation of value which is recorded on a 
        cryptographically secured distributed ledger or any similar 
        technology as specified by the Secretary.''.
    (b) Treatment of Certain Contracts.--Section 1259(c)(1)(D) is 
amended by inserting ``or enters into a contract to acquire'' after 
``acquires''.
    (c) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
        shall apply to constructive sales (determined after the 
        application of the amendment made by subsection (b)) after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Treatment of certain contracts.--The amendment made by 
        subsection (b) shall apply to contracts entered into after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 138152. RULES RELATING TO COMMON CONTROL.

    (a) Clarification of Trade or Business.--Section 52(b) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``For purposes of this 
subsection, the term `trade or business' includes any activity treated 
as a trade or business under paragraph (5) or (6) of section 469(c).''
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138153. WASH SALES BY RELATED PARTIES; WASH SALES OF SPECIFIED 
              ASSETS.

    (a) Application of Wash Sale Rules to Related Parties.--Section 
1091(a) is amended by striking ``the taxpayer has acquired'' and 
inserting ``the taxpayer (or a related party) has acquired''.
    (b) Modification of Basis Adjustment Rule to Prevent Transfer of 
Losses to Related Parties.--Section 1091(d) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(d) Adjustment to Basis in Case of Wash Sale.--If the taxpayer 
(or the taxpayer's spouse) acquires substantially identical specified 
assets during the period which--
            ``(1) begins 30 days before the disposition with respect to 
        which a deduction was disallowed under subsection (a), and
            ``(2) ends with the close of the taxpayer's first taxable 
        year which begins after such disposition,
the basis of such specified assets shall be increased by the amount of 
the deduction so disallowed (reduced by any amount of such deduction 
taken into account under this subsection to increase the basis of 
specified assets previously acquired).''
    (c) Related Party.--Section 1091 is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Related Party.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `related party' means--
                    ``(A) the taxpayer's spouse,
                    ``(B) any dependent of the taxpayer and any other 
                taxpayer with respect to whom the taxpayer is a 
                dependent,
                    ``(C) any individual, corporation, partnership, 
                trust, or estate which controls, or is controlled by, 
                (within the meaning of section 954(d)(3)) the taxpayer 
                or any individual described in subparagraph (A) or (B) 
                with respect to the taxpayer (or any combination 
                thereof),
                    ``(D) any individual retirement plan, Archer MSA 
                (as defined in section 220(d)), or health savings 
                account (as defined in section 223(d)), of the taxpayer 
                or of any individual described in subparagraph (A) or 
                (B) with respect to the taxpayer,
                    ``(E) any account under a qualified tuition program 
                described in section 529 or a Coverdell education 
                savings account (as defined in section 530(b)) if the 
                taxpayer, or any individual described in subparagraph 
                (A) or (B) with respect to the taxpayer, is the 
                designated beneficiary of such account or has the right 
                to make any decision with respect to the investment of 
                any amount in such account, and
                    ``(F) any account under--
                            ``(i) a plan described in section 401(a),
                            ``(ii) an annuity plan described in section 
                        403(a),
                            ``(iii) an annuity contract described in 
                        section 403(b), or
                            ``(iv) an eligible deferred compensation 
                        plan described in section 457(b) and maintained 
                        by an employer described in section 
                        457(e)(1)(A),
                if the taxpayer or any individual described in 
                subparagraph (A) or (B) with respect to the taxpayer 
                has the right to make any decision with respect to the 
                investment of any amount in such account.
            ``(2) Rules for determining status.--
                    ``(A) Relationships determined at time of 
                acquisition.--Determinations under paragraph (1) shall 
                be made as of the time of the purchase or exchange 
                referred to in subsection (a) except that 
                determinations under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
                paragraph (1) shall be made for the taxable year which 
                includes such purchase or exchange.
                    ``(B) Determination of marital status.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), marital status shall be determined 
                        under section 7703.
                            ``(ii) Special rule for married individuals 
                        filing separately and living apart.--A husband 
                        and wife who--
                                    ``(I) file separate returns for any 
                                taxable year, and
                                    ``(II) live apart at all times 
                                during such taxable year,
                        shall not be treated as married individuals.
            ``(3) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such 
        regulations or other guidance as may be necessary to prevent 
        the avoidance of the purposes of this subsection, including 
        regulations which treat persons as related parties if such 
        persons are formed or availed of to avoid the purposes of this 
        subsection.''.
    (d) Wash Sale Rules to Apply With Respect to Specified Assets.--
            (1) Specified assets.--Section 1091, as amended by the 
        preceding provisions of this section, is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Specified Asset.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`specified asset' means any of the following:
            ``(1) Any security described in subparagraph (A), (B), (C), 
        (D), or (E) of section 475(c)(2).
            ``(2) Any foreign currency.
            ``(3) Any commodity described in subparagraph (A), (B), or 
        (C) of section 475(e)(2).
            ``(4) Any digital representation of value which is recorded 
        on a cryptographically secured distributed ledger or any 
        similar technology as specified by the Secretary.
Such term shall, except as provided in regulations, include contracts 
or options to acquire or sell any specified assets.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Section 1091 is amended--
                    (A) by striking the last sentence of subsection 
                (a),
                    (B) by striking ``stock or securities'' each place 
                it appears and inserting ``specified assets'', and
                    (C) by striking ``shares of'' each place it appears 
                in subsections (a), (b), and (c).
    (e) Exception for Business Needs and Hedging Transactions.--Section 
1091, as amended by the preceding provisions of this section, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i) Exception for Business Needs and Hedging Transactions.--
Except as provided in regulations prescribed by the Secretary, 
subsection (a) shall not apply in the case of any sale or other 
disposition--
            ``(1) of a foreign currency or commodity described in 
        subsection (h), and
            ``(2) which--
                    ``(A) is directly related to the business needs of 
                a trade or business of the taxpayer (other than the 
                trade or business of trading foreign currencies or 
                commodities described in subsection (h)), or
                    ``(B) is part of a hedging transaction (as defined 
                in section 1221(b)(2)).''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to sales and other dispositions after December 31, 2021.
