---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Part 5 - Other Provisions

## SEC. 138501. MODIFICATIONS TO LIMITATION ON DEDUCTION OF EXCESSIVE EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 162(m) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(7) Special rules related to limitation on deduction of 
        excessive employee remuneration.--
                    ``(A) Aggregation rule.--A rule similar to the rule 
                of paragraph (6)(C)(ii) shall apply for purposes of 
                paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe 
                such regulations or other guidance as may be necessary 
                or appropriate to carry out the purposes of paragraph 
                (1), including regulations or other guidance to prevent 
                the avoidance of such purposes, including through the 
                performance of services other than as an employee or by 
                providing compensation through a pass-through or other 
                entity.''.
    (b) Acceleration of Application to 5 Highest Compensated 
Employees.--Section 162(m)(3)(C) is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2026'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.
    (c) Applicable Employee Remuneration.--Section 162(m)(4)(A) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(including performance-based 
        compensation, commissions, post-termination compensation, and 
        beneficiary payments)'' after ``remuneration for services'', 
        and
            (2) by inserting ``and whether or not such remuneration is 
        paid directly by the publicly held corporation'' after 
        ``whether or not during the taxable year''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138502. EXTENSION OF TAX TO FUND BLACK LUNG DISABILITY TRUST FUND.

    (a) In General.--Section 4121(e)(2)(A) is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2021'' and inserting ``December 31, 2025''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to sales after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138503. PROHIBITED TRANSACTIONS RELATING TO HOLDING DISC OR FSC IN 
              INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNT.

    (a) In General.--Section 4975(c)(1) is amended by striking ``or'' 
at the end of subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end of 
subparagraph (F) and inserting ``; or'', and by adding at the end the 
following new subparagraph:
                    ``(G) in the case of a DISC or FSC that receives 
                any commission, or other payment, from an entity any 
                stock or interest in which is owned by the individual 
                for whose benefit an individual retirement account is 
                maintained, holding of an interest in such DISC or FSC 
                by the individual retirement account.''.
    (b) Special Rules of Application.--Section 4975(c) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(8) Special rules of application for DISC and FSC 
        holdings.--
                    ``(A) Indirect holding of DISC or FSC.--For 
                purposes of paragraph (1)(G), if an individual 
                retirement account holds an interest in an entity that 
                owns (directly or indirectly) an interest in a DISC or 
                FSC, the account shall be treated as holding an 
                interest in such DISC or FSC.
                    ``(B) Constructive ownership.--For purposes of 
                determining ownership of stock (or any other interest) 
                in an entity under paragraph (1)(G) and ownership of an 
                interest in a DISC or FSC under subparagraph (A), the 
                rules prescribed by section 318 for determining 
                ownership shall apply, except that such section shall 
                be applied by substituting `10 percent' for `50 
                percent' each place it appears.
                    ``(C) DISC and FSC.--For purposes of his 
                subsection, the terms `DISC' and `FSC' shall have the 
                respective meanings given such terms by section 
                992(a)(1)) and section 922(a) (as in effect before its 
                repeal by the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income 
                Exclusion Act of 2000).''.
    (c) Application of Tax to Terminated Individual Retirement 
Accounts.--Section 4975(c)(3) is amended by adding at the end the 
following: ``The preceding sentence shall not apply in the case of a 
prohibited transaction described in paragraph (1)(G).''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to stock and other interests acquired or held on or after 
December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138504. INCREASE IN TAX ON CERTAIN TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND IMPOSITION 
              OF TAX ON NICOTINE.

    (a) Increasing Tax on Cigarettes.--
            (1) Small cigarettes.--Section 5701(b)(1) is amended by 
        striking ``$50.33'' and inserting ``$100.66''.
            (2) Large cigarettes.--Section 5701(b)(2) is amended by 
        striking ``$105.69'' and inserting ``$211.39''.
    (b) Tax Parity for Small Cigars.--Section 5701(a)(1) is amended by 
striking ``$50.33'' and inserting ``$100.66''.
    (c) Tax Parity for Large Cigars.--Section 5701(a)(2) is amended by 
striking ``52.75 percent'' and all that follows through the period and 
inserting ``$49.56 per pound and a proportionate tax at the like rate 
on all fractional parts of a pound but not less than 10.06 cents per 
cigar.''.
    (d) Tax Parity for Smokeless Tobacco.--
            (1) Section 5701(e) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``$1.51'' and 
                inserting ``$26.84'',
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``50.33 cents'' 
                and inserting ``$10.70'', and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(3)  Smokeless tobacco sold in discrete single-use 
        units.--On discrete single-use units, $100 per thousand.''.
            (2) Section 5702(m) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or chewing 
                tobacco'' and inserting ``, chewing tobacco, or 
                discrete single-use unit'',
                    (B) in paragraphs (2) and (3), by inserting ``and 
                that is not a discrete single-use unit'' before the 
                period at the end of each such paragraph, and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(4) Discrete single-use unit.--The term `discrete single-
        use unit' means any product containing tobacco that--
                    ``(A) is not intended to be smoked, and
                    ``(B) is in the form of a lozenge, tablet, pill, 
                pouch, dissolvable strip, or other discrete single-use 
                or single-dose unit.''.
    (e) Tax Parity for Pipe Tobacco.--Section 5701(f) is amended by 
striking ``$2.8311 cents'' and inserting ``$49.56''.
    (f) Tax Parity for Roll-Your-Own Tobacco.--Section 5701(g) is 
amended by striking ``$24.78'' and inserting ``$49.56''.
    (g) Tax Parity for Roll-Your-Own Tobacco and Certain Processed 
Tobacco.--Section 5702(o) is amended by inserting ``, and includes 
processed tobacco that is removed for delivery or delivered to a person 
other than a person with a permit provided under section 5713, but does 
not include removals of processed tobacco for exportation'' after 
``wrappers thereof''.
    (h) Imposition of Tax on Nicotine for Use in Vaping, etc.--
            (1) In general.--Section 5701 is amended by redesignating 
        subsection (h) as subsection (i) and by inserting after 
        subsection (g) the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Nicotine.--On taxable nicotine, manufactured in or imported 
into the United States, there shall be imposed a tax equal to the 
dollar amount specified in section 5701(b)(1) per 1,810 milligrams of 
nicotine (and a proportionate tax at the like rate on any fractional 
part thereof).''.
            (2) Taxable nicotine.--Section 5702 is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new subsection:
    ``(q) Taxable Nicotine.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the term `taxable nicotine' means any nicotine 
        which has been extracted, concentrated, or synthesized.
            ``(2) Exception for products approved by food and drug 
        administration.--Such term shall not include any nicotine if 
        the manufacturer or importer thereof demonstrates to the 
        satisfaction of the Secretary of Health and Human Services that 
        such nicotine will be used in--
                    ``(A) a drug--
                            ``(i) that is approved under section 505 of 
                        the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or 
                        licensed under section 351 of the Public Health 
                        Service Act; or
                            ``(ii) for which an investigational use 
                        exemption has been authorized under section 
                        505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic 
                        Act or under section 351(a) of the Public 
                        Health Service Act; or
                    ``(B) a combination product (as described in 
                section 503(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic 
                Act), the constituent parts of which were approved or 
                cleared under section 505, 510(k), or 515 of such Act.
            ``(3) Coordination with taxation of other tobacco 
        products.--Tobacco products meeting the definition of cigars, 
        cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, pipe tobacco, and roll-your-own 
        tobacco in this section shall be classified and taxed as such 
        despite any concentration of the nicotine inherent in those 
        products or any addition of nicotine to those products during 
        the manufacturing process.
            ``(4) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such 
        regulations or other guidance as is necessary or appropriate to 
        carry out the purposes of this subsection, including 
        regulations or other guidance for coordinating the taxation of 
        tobacco products and taxable nicotine to protect revenue and 
        prevent double taxation.''.
            (3) Taxable nicotine treated as a tobacco product.--Section 
        5702(c) is amended by striking ``and roll-your-own tobacco'' 
        and inserting ``roll-your-own tobacco, and taxable nicotine''.
            (4) Manufacturer of taxable nicotine.--Section 5702, as 
        amended by paragraph (2), is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new subsection:
    ``(r) Manufacturer of Taxable Nicotine.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any person who extracts, concentrates, 
        or synthesizes nicotine shall be treated as a manufacturer of 
        taxable nicotine (and as manufacturing such taxable nicotine).
            ``(2) Application of rules related to manufacturers of 
        tobacco products.--Any reference to a manufacturer of tobacco 
        products, or to manufacturing tobacco products, shall be 
        treated as including a reference to a manufacturer of taxable 
        nicotine, or to manufacturing taxable nicotine, 
        respectively.''.
    (j) Repeal of Special Rules for Determining Price of Cigars.--
Section 5702 is amended by striking subsection (l).
    (k) Floor Stocks Taxes.--
            (1) Imposition of tax.--On covered tobacco products, and 
        cigarette papers and tubes, manufactured in or imported into 
        the United States which are removed before the tax increase 
        date and held on such date for sale by any person, there is 
        hereby imposed a tax in an amount equal to the excess of--
                    (A) the tax which would be imposed under section 
                5701 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 on the 
                article if the article had been removed on such date, 
                over
                    (B) the prior tax (if any) imposed under section 
                5701 of such Code on such article.
            (2) Covered tobacco products.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term ``covered tobacco products'' means any 
        tobacco product other than--
                    (A) cigars described in section 5701(a)(2) of the 
                Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
                    (B) discrete single-use units (as defined in 
                section 5702(m)(4) of such Code, as amended by this 
                section), and
                    (C) taxable nicotine (as defined in section 5702(q) 
                of such Code, as amended by this section).
            (3) Credit against tax.--Each person shall be allowed as a 
        credit against the taxes imposed by paragraph (1) an amount 
        equal to the lesser of $1,000 or the amount of such taxes. For 
        purposes of the preceding sentence, all persons treated as a 
        single employer under subsection (b), (c), (m), or (o) of 
        section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall be 
        treated as 1 person for purposes of this paragraph.
            (4) Liability for tax and method of payment.--
                    (A) Liability for tax.--The person referred to in 
                paragraph (1) shall be liable for the tax imposed by 
                such paragraph.
                    (B) Method of payment.--The tax imposed by 
                paragraph (1) shall be paid in such manner as the 
                Secretary may provide.
            (5) Articles in foreign trade zones.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding the Act of June 
                18, 1934 (commonly known as the Foreign Trade Zone Act, 
                48 Stat. 998, 19 U.S.C. 81a et seq.) or any other 
                provision of law, any covered tobacco products, or 
                cigarette papers and tubes, which are located in a 
                foreign trade zone on the tax increase date, shall be 
                subject to the tax imposed by paragraph (1) if--
                            (i) internal revenue taxes have been 
                        determined, or customs duties liquidated, with 
                        respect to such article before such date 
                        pursuant to a request made under the 1st 
                        proviso of section 3(a) of such Act, or
                            (ii) such article is held on such date 
                        under the supervision of an officer of the 
                        United States Customs and Border Protection of 
                        the Department of Homeland Security pursuant to 
                        the 2d proviso of such section 3(a).
            (6) Tax increase date.--For purposes of this subsection, 
        the term ``tax increase date'' means the first day of the first 
        calendar quarter described in subsection (k)(1).
            (7) Certain other definitions.--Terms used in this 
        subsection which are also used in section 5702 of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 shall have the same meaning as when used 
        in such section.
    (l) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the amendments made by this section shall apply to 
        articles removed in calendar quarters beginning after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Delayed effective date for certain products.--The 
        amendments made by subsections (c), (d)(1)(C), (d)(2), and (h) 
        shall apply to articles removed in calendar quarters beginning 
        after the date which is 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
    (m) Transition Rule for Permit and Bond Requirements.--A person 
which is lawfully engaged in business as a manufacturer or importer of 
taxable nicotine (within the meaning of subchapter A of chapter 52 of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended by this section) on the 
date of the enactment of this Act, first becomes subject to the 
requirements of subchapter B of chapter 52 of such Code by reason of 
the amendments made by this section, and submits an application under 
such subchapter B to engage in such business not later than 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, shall not be denied the 
right to carry on such business by reason of such requirements before 
final action on such application.

SEC. 138505. CLARIFICATION OF RULES REGARDING TOBACCO DRAWBACK.

    (a) In General.--Section 5706 is amended by adding at the end the 
following: ``Exemption from tax under section 5704 is drawback, and no 
further drawback shall be allowed based on merchandise that has not 
been subject to tax.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to drawback claims made on or after December 18, 2018.
    (c) No Inference.--Nothing contained in this subsection or the 
amendments made by this subsection shall be construed to create any 
inference with respect to any drawback claim made before December 18, 
2018.

SEC. 138506. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYER CREDIT FOR PAID FAMILY AND MEDICAL 
              LEAVE.

    Section 45S(i) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2025'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2023''.

SEC. 138507. CLARIFICATION OF TREATMENT OF DISC GAINS AND DISTRIBUTIONS 
              OF CERTAIN FOREIGN SHAREHOLDERS.

    (a) In General.--Section 996(g) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 is amended by striking ``of such shareholder'' and inserting 
``deemed to be had by such shareholder''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to gains and distributions after December 31, 2021.
    (c) Application to Foreign Sales Corporations.--In the case of any 
distribution after December 31, 2021, section 926(b)(1) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 (prior to its repeal by the FSC Repeal and 
Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Act of 2000) shall be applied by 
substituting ``deemed to be had by such shareholder'' for ``of such 
shareholder''.

SEC. 138508. ACCESS TO SELF-EMPLOYMENT INCOME INFORMATION FOR PAID 
              LEAVE ADMINISTRATION.

    Section 6103(l) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(23) Disclosure of certain return information to carry 
        out paid family and medical leave benefit program.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall, upon 
                written request, disclose to officers and employees of 
                the Department of the Treasury return information with 
                respect to a taxpayer whose self-employment income is 
                relevant in determining eligibility for, or the correct 
                amount of, a paid family and medical leave benefit 
                under title XXII of the Social Security Act. Such 
                information shall be limited to--
                            ``(i) the taxpayer identity information 
                        with respect to the taxpayer,
                            ``(ii) the self-employment income of the 
                        taxpayer, and
                            ``(iii) the taxable year to which such 
                        self-employment income relates.
                    ``(B) Restriction on disclosure.--Return 
                information disclosed under subparagraph (A) may be 
                used by officers and employees of the Department of the 
                Treasury solely for the purpose of administering the 
                paid family and medical leave benefit program under 
                title XXII of the Social Security Act.
                    ``(C) Self-employment income.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, the term `self-employment income' has the 
                meaning given such term in section 1402(b) for purposes 
                of the taxes imposed by section 1401(b).''.

SEC. 138509. TEMPORARY RULE TO ALLOW CERTAIN S CORPORATIONS TO 
              REORGANIZE AS PARTNERSHIPS WITHOUT TAX.

    (a) In General.--A qualified liquidation of an eligible S 
corporation shall be treated for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 in the same manner as if--
            (1) such liquidation were a complete liquidation described 
        in section 332(b) of such Code, and
            (2) the domestic partnership referred to in subsection 
        (c)(2) were a corporation which is an 80-percent distributee 
        (within the meaning of section 337(c) of such Code).
    (b) Eligible S Corporation.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``eligible S corporation'' means any corporation (including any 
predecessor corporation) that was an S corporation on May 13, 1996, and 
at all times thereafter through the date on which the qualified 
liquidation is completed.
    (c) Qualified Liquidation.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``qualified liquidation'' means one or more transactions occurring 
during the 2-year period beginning on December 31, 2021 if--
            (1) such transactions constitute the complete liquidation 
        of an eligible S corporation, and
            (2) substantially all of the assets and liabilities of such 
        eligible S corporation are, as a result of such transactions, 
        transferred to a domestic partnership.
    (d) Election.--This section shall apply to any qualified 
liquidation only if the eligible S corporation elects the application 
of this section in such manner as the Secretary may require and not 
later than the due date for filing the return of tax under chapter 1 of 
such Code for the taxable year in which such liquidation is completed.
    (e) Application of Restriction on Subsection S Corporation 
Elections.--In the case of any qualified liquidation to which this 
section applies, the domestic partnership referred to in subsection 
(c)(2) shall not fail to be treated as a successor corporation of the 
eligible S corporation for purposes of section 1362(g) of such Code.
    (f) Other Definitions.--Terms used in this section which are also 
used in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall have the same meaning 
as when used in such Code.
    (g) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations or 
other guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out this 
section.

SEC. 138510. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN QUALIFIED SOUND RECORDING 
              PRODUCTIONS.

    (a) Election To Treat Costs as Expenses.--Section 181(a)(1) is 
amended by striking ``qualified film or television production, and any 
qualified live theatrical production,'' and inserting ``qualified film 
or television production, any qualified live theatrical production, and 
any qualified sound recording production''.
    (b) Dollar Limitation.--Section 181(a)(2) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Qualified sound recording production.--
                Paragraph (1) shall not apply to so much of the 
                aggregate cost of any qualified sound recording 
                production, or to so much of the aggregate, cumulative 
                cost of all such qualified sound recording productions 
                in the taxable year, as exceeds $150,000.''.
    (c) No Other Deduction or Amortization Deduction Allowable.--
Section 181(b) is amended by striking ``qualified film or television 
production or any qualified live theatrical production'' and inserting 
``qualified film or television production, any qualified live 
theatrical production, or any qualified sound recording production''.
    (d) Election.--Section 181(c)(1) is amended by striking ``qualified 
film or television production or any qualified live theatrical 
production'' and inserting ``qualified film or television production, 
any qualified live theatrical production, or any qualified sound 
recording production''.
    (e) Qualified Sound Recording Production Defined.--Section 181 is 
amended by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (g) and 
(h), respectively, and by inserting after subsection (e) the following 
new subsection:
    ``(f) Qualified Sound Recording Production.--For purposes of this 
section, the term `qualified sound recording production' means a sound 
recording (as defined in section 101 of title 17, United States Code) 
produced and recorded in the United States.''.
    (f) Termination.--Section 181(h) (as redesignated by subsection 
(e)) is amended by striking ``qualified film or television production 
or any qualified live theatrical production'' and inserting ``qualified 
film or television production, any qualified live theatrical 
production, or any qualified sound recording production''.
    (g) Bonus Depreciation.--
            (1) Qualified sound recording production as qualified 
        property.--Section 168(k)(2)(A)(i) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``or'' at the end of subclause 
                (IV), by adding ``or'' at the end of subclause (V), and 
                by inserting after subclause (V) the following:
                                    ``(VI) which is a qualified sound 
                                recording production (as defined in 
                                subsection (f) of section 181) for 
                                which a deduction would have been 
                                allowable under section 181 without 
                                regard to subsections (a)(2) and (h) of 
                                such section or this subsection,'', and
                    (B) in subclauses (IV) and (V) (as amended) by 
                striking ``without regard to subsections (a)(2) and 
                (g)'' both places it appears and inserting ``without 
                regard to subsections (a)(2) and (h)''.
            (2) Production placed in service.--Section 168(k)(2)(H) is 
        amended by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (i), by 
        striking the period at the end of clause (ii) and inserting ``, 
        and'', and by adding after clause (ii) the following:
                            ``(iii) a qualified sound recording 
                        production shall be considered to be placed in 
                        service at the time of initial release or 
                        broadcast.''.
    (h) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) The heading for section 181 is amended to read as 
        follows: ``treatment of certain qualified productions.''.
            (2) The table of sections for part VI of subchapter B of 
        chapter 1 is amended by striking the item relating to section 
        181 and inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 181. Treatment of certain qualified productions.''.
    (i) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to productions commencing in taxable years ending after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 138511. PAYMENT TO CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS WHO DYE FUEL.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter B of chapter 65 is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection:

``SEC. 6433. DYED FUEL.

    ``(a) In General.--If a person establishes to the satisfaction of 
the Secretary that such person meets the requirements of subsection (b) 
with respect to diesel fuel or kerosene, then the Secretary shall pay 
to such person an amount (without interest) equal to the tax described 
in subsection (b)(2)(A) with respect to such diesel fuel or kerosene.
    ``(b) Requirements.--
            ``(1) In general.--A person meets the requirements of this 
        subsection with respect to diesel fuel or kerosene if such 
        person removes from a terminal eligible indelibly dyed diesel 
        fuel or kerosene.
            ``(2) Eligible indelibly dyed diesel fuel or kerosene 
        defined.--The term `eligible indelibly dyed diesel fuel or 
        kerosene' means diesel fuel or kerosene--
                    ``(A) with respect to which a tax under section 
                4081 was previously paid (and not credited or 
                refunded), and
                    ``(B) which is exempt from taxation under section 
                4082(a).
    ``(c) Cross Reference.--For civil penalty for excessive claims 
under this section, see section 6675.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 6206 is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``or 6427'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``6427, or 6433'', and
                    (B) by striking ``6420 and 6421'' and inserting 
                ``6420, 6421, and 6433''.
            (2) Section 6430 is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``or'' at the end of paragraph (2), 
                by striking the period at the end of paragraph (3) and 
                inserting ``or'', and by adding at the end the 
                following new paragraph:
            ``(4) which are removed as eligible indelibly dyed diesel 
        fuel or kerosene under section 6433.''.
            (3) Section 6675 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``or 6427 
                (relating to fuels not used for taxable purposes)'' and 
                inserting ``6427 (relating to fuels not used for 
                taxable purposes), or 6433 (relating to eligible 
                indelibly dyed fuel)'', and
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``6421, or 
                6427,'' and inserting ``6421, 6427, or 6433''.
            (4) The table of sections for subchapter B of chapter 65 is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``Sec. 6433. Dyed fuel.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to eligible indelibly dyed diesel fuel or kerosene removed on or 
after the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
section.

SEC. 138512. EXTENSION OF CREDIT FOR PORTION OF EMPLOYER SOCIAL 
              SECURITY TAXES PAID WITH RESPECT TO EMPLOYEE TIPS TO 
              BEAUTY SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.

    (a) Extension of Tip Credit to Beauty Service Business.--
            (1) In general.--Section 45B(b)(2) is amended to read as 
        follows:
            ``(2) Application only to certain lines of business.--In 
        applying paragraph (1), there shall be taken into account only 
        tips received from customers or clients in connection with the 
        following services:
                    ``(A) The providing, delivering, or serving of food 
                or beverages for consumption, if the tipping of 
                employees delivering or serving food or beverages by 
                customers is customary.
                    ``(B) The providing of beauty services to a 
                customer or client if the tipping of employees 
                providing such services is customary.''.
            (2) Beauty service defined.--Section 45B is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Beauty Service.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`beauty service' means any of the following:
            ``(1) Barbering and hair care.
            ``(2) Nail care.
            ``(3) Esthetics.
            ``(4) Body and spa treatments.''.
    (b) Credit Determined With Respect to Minimum Wage in Effect.--
Section 45B(b)(1)(B) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``as in effect on January 1, 2007, and'', 
        and
            (2) by inserting ``, and in the case of food or beverage 
        establishments, as in effect on January 1, 2007'' after 
        ``without regard to section 3(m) of such Act''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138513. ENHANCEMENT OF WORK OPPORTUNITY CREDIT DURING COVID-19 
              RECOVERY PERIOD.

    (a) In General.--Section 51 is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(l) Adjustment to Credit During COVID-19 Recovery Period.--In the 
case of individuals (other than any individual who is a qualified 
summer youth employee) hired after the date of the enactment of this 
subsection and before January 1, 2023--
            ``(1) Increased amount of credit.--Subsection (a) shall be 
        applied by substituting `50 percent' for `40 percent'.
            ``(2) Availability of credit in second year of 
        employment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subsection (a) shall be applied 
                by inserting `or qualified second-year wages' after 
                `wages'.
                    ``(B) Qualified second-year wages.--For the 
                purposes of this paragraph, the term `qualified second-
                year wages' means qualified wages which are 
                attributable to service rendered during the 1-year 
                period beginning on the day after the last day of the 
                1-year period with respect to the recipient determined 
                under subsection (b)(2).
            ``(3) Increase in limitation on wages taken into account.--
        Subsection (b)(3) shall be applied by substituting `$10,000' 
        for `$6,000'.
            ``(4) Eligibility of rehires.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subsection (i)(2) shall not 
                apply.
                    ``(B) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such 
                regulations as the Secretary determines appropriate to 
                ensure a reasonable application of subparagraph (A), 
                including prohibiting attempts to claim the benefit of 
                this section through the termination and rehiring of an 
                employee.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to taxable years ending after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 138514. ALLOWANCE OF DEDUCTION FOR CERTAIN EXPENSES OF THE TRADE 
              OR BUSINESS OF BEING AN EMPLOYEE.

    (a) Above-the-Line Deduction for Union Dues.--Section 62(a)(2) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(F) Union dues.--The deductions allowed by section 162 
        which are both--
                    ``(A) not in excess of $250, and
                    ``(B) attributable to a trade or business 
                consisting of the performance of services by the 
                taxpayer as an employee if such deductions are for dues 
                paid to a labor organization described in section 
                501(c)(5) and with respect to which such taxpayer 
                remained a member through the end of the taxable 
                year.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138515. COVER OVER OF CERTAIN DISTILLED SPIRITS TAXES.

    (a) Repeal of Limitation on Cover Over of Distilled Spirits Taxes 
to Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands.--
            (1) In general.--Section 7652 is amended by striking 
        subsection (f) and by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as 
        subsections (f) and (g), respectively.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
        shall apply to distilled spirits brought into the United States 
        after December 31, 2021.
    (b) Required Transfer to Puerto Rico Conservation Trust Fund of 
Portion of Puerto Rico Rum Cover Over.--
            (1) In general.--Section 7652(a) is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Required transfer to puerto rico conservation trust 
        fund of portion of rum taxes covered over.--
                    ``(A) In general.--From any taxes collected on rum 
                transported to the United States that are covered into 
                the treasury of Puerto Rico under paragraph (3) at a 
                rate equal to or greater than $10.50 per proof gallon, 
                Puerto Rico shall transfer to the Puerto Rico 
                Conservation Trust Fund an amount per proof gallon 
                equal to or greater than \1/6\ of the difference 
                between $10.50 and the rate, not to exceed $13.25, at 
                which such taxes are covered into such treasury. Puerto 
                Rico's obligations under this paragraph shall not 
                modify or impair payment priorities established under 
                Puerto Rico law and in effect on May 21, 2021.
                    ``(B) Puerto rico conservation trust fund.--For 
                purposes of this section, the term `Puerto Rico 
                Conservation Trust Fund' means the fund established 
                pursuant to a Memorandum of Understanding between the 
                United States Department of the Interior and the 
                Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, dated December 24, 
                1968.''.
            (2) Cover over determined without regard to certain rate 
        reductions.--Section 7652(h), as amended by subsections (a) and 
        (c), is amended by inserting ``(a)(4),'' after ``(a)(3),''.
            (3) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
        shall apply to distilled spirits brought into the United States 
        after December 31, 2021.
    (c) Cover Over Determined Without Regard to Certain Rate 
Reductions.--
            (1) In general.--Section 7652, as amended by subsection 
        (a), is amended by inserting after subsection (g) the following 
        new subsection:
    ``(h) Cover Over Determined Without Regard to Certain Rate 
Reductions.--For purposes of subsections (a)(3), (b)(3), and (e)(1), 
refunds under section 5001(c)(4) shall not be taken into account as a 
refund, and the amount of taxes imposed and collected under section 
5001(a)(1) shall be determined without regard to section 5001(c).''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect as if included in section 13807 of Public Law 
        116-260.
            (3) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) 7652(e).--
                            (i) In general.--Section 7652(e) is amended 
                        by striking paragraph (5).
                            (ii) Effective date.--The amendment made by 
                        this subparagraph shall take effect as if 
                        included in section 13807 of Public Law 115-97.
                    (B) 7652(i).--
                            (i) In general.--Section 7652 is amended by 
                        striking subsection (i).
                            (ii) Effective date.--The amendment made by 
                        this subparagraph shall take effect as if 
                        included in section 107 of Public Law 116-260.

SEC. 138516. RESEARCH AND EXPERIMENTAL EXPENDITURES.

    (a) In General.--Section 13206 of Public Law 115-97 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``2021'' and 
        inserting ``2025'', and
            (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``2021'' and inserting 
        ``2025''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 138517. PAYROLL CREDIT FOR COMPENSATION OF LOCAL NEWS JOURNALISTS.

    (a) In General.--In the case of an eligible local newspaper 
publisher, there shall be allowed as a credit against applicable 
employment taxes for each calendar quarter an amount equal to the 
applicable percentage of wages paid by such publisher to local news 
journalists for such calendar quarter.
    (b) Limitations and Refundability.--
            (1) Wages taken into account.--The amount of wages paid 
        with respect to any individual which may be taken into account 
        under subsection (a) during any calendar quarter by the 
        eligible local newspaper publisher shall not exceed $12,500.
            (2) Credit limited to employment taxes.--The credit allowed 
        by subsection (a) with respect to any calendar quarter shall 
        not exceed the applicable employment taxes (reduced by any 
        credits allowed under sections 3131, 3132, 3134, and 6432 of 
        the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) on the wages paid with 
        respect to the employment of all the employees of the eligible 
        local newspaper publisher for such calendar quarter.
            (3) Refundability of excess credit.--
                    (A) In general.--If the amount of the credit under 
                subsection (a) exceeds the limitation of paragraph (2) 
                for any calendar quarter, such excess shall be treated 
                as an overpayment that shall be refunded under sections 
                6402(a) and 6413(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
                1986.
                    (B) Treatment of payments.--For purposes of section 
                1324 of title 31, United States Code, any amounts due 
                to the employer under this paragraph shall be treated 
                in the same manner as a refund due from a credit 
                provision referred to in subsection (b)(2) of such 
                section.
    (c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            (1) Applicable percentage.--The term ``applicable 
        percentage'' means--
                    (A) in the case of each of the first 4 calendar 
                quarters to which this section applies, 50 percent, and
                    (B) in the case of each calendar quarter 
                thereafter, 30 percent.
            (2) Applicable employment taxes.--The term ``applicable 
        employment taxes'' means the taxes imposed under section 
        3111(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
            (3) Eligible local newspaper publisher.--The term 
        ``eligible local newspaper publisher'' means, with respect to 
        any calendar quarter, any employer if substantially all of the 
        gross receipts of such employer for such calendar quarter are 
        derived in the trade or business of publishing a local 
        newspaper.
            (4) Local newspaper.--The term ``local newspaper'' means 
        any print or digital publication if--
                    (A) the primary content of such publication is 
                original content derived from primary sources and 
                relating to news and current events,
                    (B) such publication primarily serves the needs of 
                a regional or local community,
                    (C) the publisher of such publication employs at 
                least one local news journalist who resides in such 
                regional or local community, and
                    (D) the publisher of such publication employs no 
                more than 750 employees during the calendar quarter 
                with respect to which a credit is allowed under this 
                section.
            (5) Local news journalist.--The term ``local news 
        journalist'' means, with respect to any eligible local 
        newspaper publisher for any calendar quarter, an individual who 
        provides at least 100 hours of service during such calendar 
        quarter to such eligible local newspaper publisher, during 
        which time such individual regularly gathers, collects, 
        photographs, records, writes, or reports news or information 
        that concerns local events or other matters of local public 
        interest.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Treasury or the Secretary's delegate.
            (7) Wages.--The term ``wages'' means wages (as defined in 
        section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986).
            (8) Other terms.--Any term used in this section which is 
        also used in chapter 21 or chapter 22 of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986 shall have the same meaning as when used in such 
        chapter.
    (d) Aggregation Rule.--
            (1) In general.--All persons treated as a single employer 
        under subsection (a) or (b) of section 52 of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986, or subsection (m) or (o) of section 414 
        of such Code, shall be treated as one employer for purposes of 
        this section.
            (2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply unless such 
        persons are involved in the production of the same print or 
        digital publication.
    (e) Certain Rules To Apply.--For purposes of this section, rules 
similar to the rules of sections 51(i)(1) and 280C(a) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 shall apply.
    (f) Certain Governmental Employers.--This credit shall not apply to 
the Government of the United States, the government of any State or 
political subdivision thereof, or any agency or instrumentality of any 
of the foregoing.
    (g) Election To Have Section Not Apply.--This section shall not 
apply with respect to any eligible local newspaper publisher for any 
calendar quarter if such person elects (at such time and in such manner 
as the Secretary may prescribe) not to have this section apply.
    (h) Special Rules.--
            (1) Employee not taken into account more than once.--An 
        employee shall not be included for purposes of this section for 
        any period with respect to any employer if such employer is 
        allowed a credit under section 51 of the Internal Revenue Code 
        of 1986 with respect to such employee for such period.
            (2) Denial of double benefit.--Any wages taken into account 
        in determining the credit allowed under this section shall not 
        be taken into account for purposes of determining the credits 
        allowed under section 41, 45A, 45P, 45S, 51, 1396, 3131, 3132, 
        3134, and 6432 of such Code.
            (3) Third-party payors.--Any credit allowed under this 
        section shall be treated as a credit described in section 
        3511(d)(2) of such Code.
    (i) Treatment of Deposits.--The Secretary shall waive any penalty 
under section 6656 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for any failure 
to make a deposit of any applicable employment taxes if the Secretary 
determines that such failure was due to the reasonable anticipation of 
the credit allowed under this section.
    (j) Regulations and Guidance.--The Secretary shall issue such 
forms, instructions, regulations, and guidance as are necessary to 
implement the purposes of this section, including with respect to the 
application of the credit under subsection (a) to third-party payors 
(including professional employer organizations, certified professional 
employer organizations, or agents under section 3504 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986), including regulations or guidance allowing such 
payors to submit documentation necessary to substantiate the eligible 
employer status of employers that use such payors.
    (k) Application.--This section shall only apply to calendar 
quarters during the first 5 calendar years beginning after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 138518. TREATMENT OF FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE COMPANIES AS 
              QUALIFYING INSURANCE CORPORATIONS UNDER PASSIVE FOREIGN 
              INVESTMENT COMPANY RULES.

    (a) In General.--Section 1297(f)(3) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Special rules for financial guaranty 
                insurance companies.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Notwithstanding 
                        subparagraphs (A)(ii) and (B), the applicable 
                        insurance liabilities of a financial guaranty 
                        insurance company shall include its unearned 
                        premium reserves if--
                                    ``(I) such company is prohibited 
                                under generally accepted accounting 
                                principles from reporting on its 
                                applicable financial statements 
                                reserves for losses and loss adjustment 
                                expenses with respect to a financial 
                                guaranty insurance or reinsurance 
                                contract except to the extent that 
                                losses and loss adjustment expenses are 
                                expected to exceed the unearned premium 
                                reserves on the contract,
                                    ``(II) the applicable financial 
                                statement of such company reports 
                                financial guaranty exposure of at least 
                                15-to-1 or State or local bond exposure 
                                of at least 9-to-1 (8-to-1 in the case 
                                of a taxable year of such company which 
                                ends on or before December 31, 2018), 
                                and
                                    ``(III) such company includes in 
                                its insurance liabilities only its 
                                unearned premium reserves relating to 
                                insurance written or assumed that is 
                                within the single risk limits set forth 
                                in subsection (D) of section 4 of the 
                                Financial Guaranty Insurance Guideline 
                                (modified by using total shareholder's 
                                equity as reported on the applicable 
                                financial statement of the company 
                                rather than aggregate of the surplus to 
                                policyholders and contingency 
                                reserves).
                            ``(ii) Application of alternative facts and 
                        circumstances test.--A financial guaranty 
                        insurance company shall be treated as 
                        satisfying the requirements of paragraph 
                        (2)(B).
                            ``(iii) Financial guaranty insurance 
                        company.--For purposes of this subparagraph, 
                        the term `financial guaranty insurance company' 
                        means any insurance company the sole business 
                        of which is writing or reinsuring financial 
                        guaranty insurance (as defined in subsection 
                        (A) of section 1 of the Financial Guaranty 
                        Insurance Guideline) which is permitted under 
                        subsection (B) of section 4 of such Guideline.
                            ``(iv) Financial guaranty exposure.--For 
                        purposes of this subparagraph, the term 
                        `financial guaranty exposure' means the ratio 
                        of--
                                    ``(I) the net debt service 
                                outstanding insured or reinsured by the 
                                company that is within the single risk 
                                limits set forth in the Financial 
                                Guaranty Insurance Guideline (as 
                                reported on such company's applicable 
                                financial statement), to
                                    ``(II) the company's total assets 
                                (as so reported).
                            ``(v) State or local bond exposure.--For 
                        purposes of this subparagraph, the term `State 
                        or local bond exposure' means the ratio of--
                                    ``(I) the net unpaid principal of 
                                State or local bonds (as defined in 
                                section 103(c)(1)) insured or reinsured 
                                by the company that is within the 
                                single risk limits set forth in the 
                                Financial Guaranty Insurance Guideline 
                                (as reported on such company's 
                                applicable financial statement), to
                                    ``(II) the company's total assets 
                                (as so reported).''
                            ``(vi) Financial guaranty insurance 
                        guideline.--For purposes of this subparagraph--
                                    ``(I) In general.--The term 
                                `Financial Guaranty Insurance 
                                Guideline' means the October 2008 model 
                                regulation that was adopted by the 
                                National Association of Insurance 
                                Commissioners on December 4, 2007.
                                    ``(II) Determinations made by 
                                secretary.--The determination of 
                                whether any provision of the Financial 
                                Guaranty Insurance Guideline has been 
                                satisfied shall be made by the 
                                Secretary.''.
    (b) Reporting of Certain Items.--Section 1297(f)(4) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Clarification that certain items on 
                applicable financial statement be separately reported 
                with respect to corporation.--An amount described in 
                paragraph (1)(B) or clause (i)(II), (i)(III), (iv)(I), 
                (iv)(II), (v)(I), or (v)(II) of paragraph (3)(C) shall 
                be treated as reported on an applicable financial 
                statement for purposes of this section if--
                            ``(i) such amount is separately reported on 
                        such statement with respect to the corporation 
                        referred to in paragraph (1), or
                            ``(ii) such amount is separately determined 
                        for purposes of calculating an amount which is 
                        reported on such statement.
                    ``(D) Authority of secretary to require 
                reporting.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Each United States 
                        person who owns an interest in a specified non-
                        publicly traded foreign corporation and who 
                        takes the position that such corporation is not 
                        a passive foreign investment company shall 
                        report to the Secretary such information with 
                        respect to such corporation as the Secretary 
                        may require.
                            ``(ii) Specified non-publicly traded 
                        foreign corporation.--For purposes of this 
                        subparagraph, the term `specified non-publicly 
                        traded foreign corporation' means any foreign 
                        corporation--
                                    ``(I) which would be a passive 
                                foreign investment company if 
                                subsection (b)(2)(B) did not apply, and
                                    ``(II) no interest in which is 
                                traded on an established securities 
                                market.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the amendments made by this section shall take 
        effect as if included in section 14501 of Public Law 115-97.
            (2) Reporting.--The amendment made by subsection (b) shall 
        apply to reports made after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act.

SEC. 138519. CREDIT FOR QUALIFIED ACCESS TECHNOLOGY FOR THE BLIND.

    (a) In General.--Subpart C of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 
is amended by inserting after section 36G the following new section:

``SEC. 36H. CREDIT FOR QUALIFIED ACCESS TECHNOLOGY FOR THE BLIND.

    ``(a) Allowance of Credit.--There shall be allowed as a credit 
against the tax imposed by this subtitle an amount equal to amounts 
paid or incurred during the taxable year, not compensated for by 
insurance or otherwise, by the taxpayer for qualified access technology 
for use by a qualified blind individual who is the taxpayer, the 
taxpayer's spouse, or any dependent (as defined in section 152) of the 
taxpayer.
    ``(b) Limitation.--The aggregate amount of the credit allowed under 
subsection (a) with respect to any qualified blind individual shall not 
exceed $2,000 in any 3-consecutive-taxable-year period.
    ``(c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Qualified blind individual.--The term `qualified 
        blind individual' means an individual who is blind within the 
        meaning of section 63(f)(4).
            ``(2) Qualified access technology defined.--The term 
        `qualified access technology' means hardware, software, or 
        other information technology the primary function of which is 
        to convert or adapt information which is visually represented 
        into forms or formats useable by blind individuals.
    ``(d) Denial of Double Benefit.--No credit shall be allowed under 
subsection (a) for any expense for which a deduction or credit is 
allowed under any other provision of this chapter.
    ``(e) Inflation Adjustment.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of a taxable year beginning 
        after 2022, the $2,000 amount in subsection (b) shall be 
        increased by an amount equal to--
                    ``(A) such dollar amount, multiplied by
                    ``(B) the cost-of-living adjustment determined 
                under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year in which 
                the taxable year begins, determined by substituting 
                `calendar year 2021' for `calendar year 2016' in 
                subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.
            ``(2) Rounding.--If the amount as adjusted under 
        subparagraph (A) is not a multiple of $100, such amount shall 
        be rounded to the next lowest multiple of $100.
    ``(f) Termination.--This section shall not apply with respect to 
amounts paid or incurred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 
2026.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 6211(b)(4)(A), as amended by the preceding 
        provisions of this Act, is amended by inserting ``, 36H'' after 
        ``36G''.
            (2) Section 1324(b)(2) of title 31, United States Code, is 
        amended by inserting ``, 36H'' after ``, 36G''.
            (3) The table of sections for subpart C of part IV of 
        subchapter A is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
        section 36G the following new item:

``Sec. 36H. Credit for qualified access technology for the blind.''
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

SEC. 138520. MODIFICATION OF REIT CONSTRUCTIVE OWNERSHIP RULES.

    (a) In General.--Section 856(d)(5) is amended by striking ``and'' 
at the end of subparagraph (A), by striking the period at the end of 
subparagraph (B) and inserting ``, and'', and by adding at the end the 
following:
                    ``(C) except as otherwise provided by the 
                Secretary, stock, assets, and net profits 
                constructively owned by a partnership, estate, trust, 
                or corporation by reason of the application of section 
                318(a)(3) (after application of subparagraphs (A) and 
                (B)) shall not be considered as owned by it for 
                purposes of again applying such section in order to 
                make another person the constructive owner of such 
                stock, assets, or net profits.
        Subparagraph (C) shall not prevent any person from being the 
        constructive owner of stock, assets, or net profits of any 
        person as the result of any other application of section 318(a) 
        (as modified by this paragraph).''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years ending after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (c) No Inference.--Nothing in this section or the amendments made 
by this section shall be construed to create any inference with respect 
to the proper application of section 318 of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 to cases other than cases to which such amendments apply.
