---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Part 4 - Funding The Internal Revenue Service And Improving Taxpayer Compliance

## SEC. 138401. FUNDING OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated:
            (1) $78,935,000,000, to remain available until September 
        30, 2031, for necessary expenses for the Internal Revenue 
        Service (IRS) for strengthening tax enforcement activities and 
        increasing voluntary compliance, expanding audits and other 
        enforcement activities, and modernizing information technology 
        to effectively support enforcement activities, except that no 
        use of these funds is intended to increase taxes on any 
        taxpayer with taxable income below $400,000;
            (2) $410,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
        2031, for necessary expenses for the Treasury Inspector General 
        for Tax Administration to provide oversight of the IRS, 
        including ensuring that taxpayer privacy is protected and that 
        no undue burden is imposed on small businesses from IRS 
        enforcement activities; and
            (3) $157,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
        2031, for the Tax Court for adjudicating tax disputes.

SEC. 138402. APPLICATION OF BACKUP WITHHOLDING WITH RESPECT TO THIRD 
              PARTY NETWORK TRANSACTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3406(b) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new paragraph:
            ``(8) Other reportable payments include payments in 
        settlement of third party network transactions only where 
        aggregate for calendar year is $600 or more.--Any payment in 
        settlement of a third party network transaction required to be 
        shown on a return required under section 6050W which is made 
        during any calendar year shall be treated as a reportable 
        payment only if--
                    ``(A) the aggregate amount of such payment and all 
                previous such payments made by the third party 
                settlement organization to the participating payee 
                during such calendar year equals or exceeds $600, or
                    ``(B) the third party settlement organization was 
                required under section 6050W to file a return for the 
                preceding calendar year with respect to payments to the 
                participating payee.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 6050W(e) is amended by inserting 
``equal or'' before ``exceed $600''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to calendar years beginning after December 31, 2021.
    (d) Transitional Rule for 2022.--In the case of payments made 
during calendar year 2022, section 3406(b)(8)(A) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 (as added by this section) shall be applied by 
inserting ``and the aggregate number of third party network 
transactions settled by the third party settlement organization with 
respect to the participating payee during such calendar year exceeds 
200'' before the comma at the end.

SEC. 138403. LIMITATION ON DEDUCTION FOR QUALIFIED CONSERVATION 
              CONTRIBUTIONS MADE BY PASS-THROUGH ENTITIES, ETC.

    (a) In General.--Section 170(h) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraphs:
            ``(7) Limitation on deduction for qualified conservation 
        contributions made by pass-through entities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A contribution by a partnership 
                (whether directly or as a distributive share of a 
                contribution of another partnership) shall not be 
                treated as a qualified conservation contribution for 
                purposes of this section if the amount of such 
                contribution exceeds 2.5 times the sum of each 
                partner's relevant basis in such partnership.
                    ``(B) Relevant basis.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph--
                            ``(i) In general.--The term `relevant 
                        basis' means, with respect to any partner, the 
                        portion of such partner's modified basis in the 
                        partnership which is allocable (under rules 
                        similar to the rules of section 755) to the 
                        portion of the real property with respect to 
                        which the contribution described in 
                        subparagraph (A) is made.
                            ``(ii) Modified basis.--The term `modified 
                        basis' means, with respect to any partner, such 
                        partner's adjusted basis in the partnership as 
                        determined--
                                    ``(I) immediately before the 
                                contribution described in subparagraph 
                                (A),
                                    ``(II) without regard to section 
                                752, and
                                    ``(III) by the partnership after 
                                taking into account the adjustments 
                                described in subclauses (I) and (II) 
                                and such other adjustments as the 
                                Secretary may provide.
                    ``(C) Exception for contributions outside 3-year 
                holding period.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to 
                any contribution which is made at least 3 years after 
                the latest of--
                            ``(i) the last date on which the 
                        partnership that made such contribution 
                        acquired any portion of the real property with 
                        respect to which such contribution is made,
                            ``(ii) the last date on which any partner 
                        in the partnership that made such contribution 
                        acquired any interest in such partnership, and
                            ``(iii) if the interest in the partnership 
                        that made such contribution is held through one 
                        or more partnerships--
                                    ``(I) the last date on which any 
                                such partnership acquired any interest 
                                in any other such partnership, and
                                    ``(II) the last date on which any 
                                partner in any such partnership 
                                acquired any interest in such 
                                partnership.
                    ``(D) Exception for family partnerships.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subparagraph (A) shall 
                        not apply with respect to any contribution made 
                        by any partnership if substantially all of the 
                        partnership interests in such partnership are 
                        held, directly or indirectly, by an individual 
                        and members of the family of such individual.
                            ``(ii) Members of the family.--For purposes 
                        of this subparagraph, the term `members of the 
                        family' means, with respect to any individual--
                                    ``(I) the spouse of such 
                                individual, and
                                    ``(II) any individual who bears a 
                                relationship to such individual which 
                                is described in subparagraphs (A) 
                                through (G) of section 152(d)(2).
                    ``(E) Application to other pass-through entities.--
                Except as may be otherwise provided by the Secretary, 
                the rules of this paragraph shall apply to S 
                corporations and other pass-through entities in the 
                same manner as such rules apply to partnerships.
                    ``(F) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe 
                such regulations or other guidance as may be necessary 
                or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this 
                paragraph, including regulations or other guidance--
                            ``(i) to require reporting, including 
                        reporting related to tiered partnerships and 
                        the modified basis of partners, and
                            ``(ii) to prevent the avoidance of the 
                        purposes of this paragraph.
            ``(8) Notice of certain failures.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If a donor is found by the 
                Secretary to have failed to meet the requirement that a 
                qualified conservation contribution shall be granted 
                and protected in perpetuity by reason of defective 
                language in the deed relating to property line 
                adjustments or extinguishment clauses, the donor shall 
                have 90 days from the written notice by the Secretary 
                to correct such failure, unless the Secretary can 
                demonstrate that the donor's failure to meet those 
                requirements was intentional.
                    ``(B) Exception.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply 
                to any reportable transaction or any contribution that 
                is not treated as a qualified conservation contribution 
                by reason of paragraph (7).''.
    (b) Application of Accuracy-Related Penalties.--
            (1) In general.--Section 6662(b) is amended by inserting 
        after paragraph (9) the following new paragraph:
            ``(10) Any disallowance of a deduction by reason of section 
        170(h)(7).''.
            (2) Treatment as gross valuation misstatement.--Section 
        6662(h)(2) is amended by striking ``and'' at the end of 
        subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end of 
        subparagraph (C) and inserting ``, and'', and by adding at the 
        end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) any disallowance of a deduction described in 
                subsection (b)(10).''.
            (3) No reasonable cause exception.--Section 6664(c)(2) is 
        amended by inserting ``or to any disallowance of a deduction 
        described in section 6662(b)(10)'' before the period at the 
        end.
            (4) Approval of assessment not required.--Section 
        6751(b)(2)(A) is amended by striking ``subsection (b)(9)'' and 
        inserting ``paragraph (9) or (10) of subsection (b)''.
    (c) Application of Statute of Limitations on Assessment and 
Collection.--
            (1) Extension for certain adjustments made under prior 
        law.--In the case of any disallowance of a deduction by reason 
        of section 170(h)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as 
        added by this section) or any penalty imposed under section 
        6662 of such Code with respect to such disallowance, section 
        6229(d)(2) of such Code (as in effect before its repeal) shall 
        be applied by substituting ``2 years'' for ``1 year''.
            (2) Extension for listed transactions.--Any contribution 
        described in section 170(h)(7)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code 
        of 1986 (as added by this section) shall be treated for 
        purposes of sections 6501(c)(10) and 6235(c)(6) of such Code as 
        a transaction specifically identified by the Secretary on 
        December 23, 2016, as a tax avoidance transaction for purposes 
        of section 6011 of such Code.
    (d) Application to Certain Transactions Disallowed Under Other 
Provisions of Law.--In the case of any disallowance of a deduction 
under section 170 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 with respect to 
a transaction described in Internal Revenue Service Notice 2017-10 with 
respect to a taxable year ending before the date of the enactment of 
this Act, such disallowance shall be treated for purposes of section 
6662(b)(10) of such Code (as added by this section) and subsection 
(c)(1) as being by reason of section 170(h)(7) of such Code (as added 
by this section).
    (e) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and 
        (3), the amendments made by this section shall apply to 
        contributions made after December 23, 2016, in taxable years 
        ending after such date.
            (2) Notice of certain failures.--So much of the amendment 
        made by subsection (a) as relates to section 170(h)(8) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as added by such subsection, 
        shall apply to--
                    (A) returns filed after the date of the enactment 
                of this Act, and
                    (B) returns filed on or before such date if the 
                period specified in section 6501 for assessment of the 
                taxes with respect to which such return relates has not 
                expired as of such date.
            (3) Certified historic structures.--In the case of 
        contributions the conservation purpose (as defined in section 
        170(h)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) of which is the 
        preservation of a certified historic structure (as defined in 
        section 170(h)(4)(C) of such Code), the amendments made by this 
        section shall apply to contributions made in taxable years 
        beginning after December 31, 2018.
            (4) No inference.--No inference is intended as to the 
        appropriate treatment of contributions made in taxable years 
        ending on or before the date specified in paragraph (1) or (3), 
        whichever is applicable, or as to any activity not described in 
        section 170(h)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as 
        added by this section.

SEC. 138404. MODIFICATION OF PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO 
              ASSESSMENT OF PENALTIES.

    (a) Repeal of Approval Requirement.--Section 6751, as amended by 
the preceding provision of this Act, is amended by striking subsection 
(b).
    (b) Quarterly Certifications of Compliance With Procedural 
Requirements.--Section 6751, as amended by subsection (a) of this 
section, is amended by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
subsection:
    ``(b) Quarterly Certifications of Compliance.--Each appropriate 
supervisor of employees of the Internal Revenue Service shall certify 
quarterly by letter to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue whether or 
not the requirements of subsection (a) have been met with respect to 
notices of penalty issued by such employees.''.
    (c) Effective Dates.--
            (1) Repeal of approval requirement.--The amendment made by 
        subsection (a) shall take effect as if included in section 3306 
        of the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 
        1998.
            (2) Quarterly certifications of compliance with procedural 
        requirements.--The amendment made by subsection (b) shall apply 
        to notices of penalty issued after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.
