---
sidebar_position: 11
---

# Title XI - Committee On Transportation And Infrastructure

## SEC. 110001. AFFORDABLE HOUSING ACCESS PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any funds in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $9,900,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, for competitive grants to support access to 
affordable housing and the enhancement of mobility for residents in 
disadvantaged communities or neighborhoods, in persistent poverty 
communities, or for low-income riders generally.
    (b) Criteria and Process.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development and the Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration 
shall establish criteria and a process for the allocation of funds made 
available under this section in a manner to ensure that such funds 
support--
            (1) access to affordable housing;
            (2) enhanced mobility for residents and riders, including 
        those in disadvantaged communities and neighborhoods, 
        persistent poverty communities, or for low-income riders 
        generally; or
            (3) other community benefits for residents of disadvantaged 
        communities or neighborhoods, persistent poverty communities, 
        or for low-income riders generally identified by the Secretary 
        and the Administrator related to enhanced transit service, 
        including--
                    (A) access to job and educational opportunities;
                    (B) better connections to medical care; or
                    (C) enhanced access to grocery stores with fresh 
                foods to help eliminate food deserts.
    (c) Administration of Funds.--Funds made available under this 
section shall--
            (1) be available to recipients and subrecipients eligible 
        under chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code;
            (2) after allocation, be administered by the Administrator 
        of the Federal Transit Administration--
                    (A) to recipients and subrecipients in urban areas, 
                as if such funds were provided under section 5307 of 
                title 49, United States Code;
                    (B) to recipients and subrecipients in rural areas, 
                as if such funds were provided under section 5311 of 
                such title;
                    (C) for any project activities related to the 
                acquisition of zero-emission buses or related 
                infrastructure, as if funds for such activities were 
                awarded under section 5339(c) of such title;
                    (D) for any activities related to research that 
                supports efforts to reduce barriers to the deployment 
                of zero-emission transit vehicles in disadvantaged 
                communities or neighborhoods and rural areas, including 
                barriers related to the cost of such vehicles, as if 
                funds for such activities were provided under section 
                5312 of such title; or
                    (E) for any activities related to the training and 
                development of the transit workforce that provides 
                service to disadvantaged communities or neighborhoods 
                and rural areas, including the creation of new 
                employment opportunities in the transit industry for 
                workers from such communities, neighborhoods or areas, 
                as if funds for such activities were provided under 
                section 5314 of such title;
            (3) not be subject to any restriction on the total amount 
        of funds available for implementation or execution of programs 
        authorized under section 5307, 5311, 5312, 5314, or 5339 of 
        title 49, United States Code;
            (4) notwithstanding paragraph (1), be available for grants 
        for up to 100 percent of the net cost of a project; and
            (5) be expended in compliance with the requirements of part 
        26 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
    (d) Eligible Activities.--Eligible activities for funds made 
available under this section shall be--
            (1) construction of a new fixed guideway capital project;
            (2) construction of a bus rapid transit project or a 
        corridor-based bus rapid transit project that utilizes zero-
        emission vehicles, including costs related to the acquisition 
        of such vehicles and related charging or fueling 
        infrastructure, or a collection of such projects;
            (3) the establishment or expansion of high-frequency bus 
        service that utilizes zero-emission buses, including costs 
        related to the acquisition of such vehicles and related 
        charging or fueling infrastructure, but does not have all of 
        the features of a bus rapid transit project or corridor-based 
        bus rapid transit project;
            (4) an expansion of the service area or the frequency of 
        service of recipients or subrecipients under section 5311 of 
        title 49, United States Code, which may include operational 
        expenses, including the provision of fare-free or reduced-fare 
        service, or the acquisition of vehicles or infrastructure to 
        expand service;
            (5) notwithstanding subsection (a)(1) of section 5307 of 
        such title, an expansion of the service area or the frequency 
        of service of recipients under such section, which may include 
        operational expenses, including the provision of fare-free or 
        reduced-fare service, or the acquisition of zero-emission 
        vehicles or infrastructure to expand service;
            (6) renovation or construction of facilities and incidental 
        expenses to continue or expand transit service in disadvantaged 
        communities or neighborhoods or service that benefits low-
        income riders generally;
            (7) research activities and capital expenses related to 
        research under section 5312 of such title that support efforts 
        to reduce barriers to the deployment of zero-emission transit 
        vehicles in disadvantaged communities or neighborhoods and 
        rural areas, including barriers related to the cost of such 
        vehicles;
            (8) activities under section 5314 of such title that 
        support the training and development of the transit workforce 
        that provides service to disadvantaged communities or 
        neighborhoods and rural areas, including the creation of new 
        employment opportunities in the transit industry for workers 
        from such communities, neighborhoods, or areas;
            (9) additional assistance to project sponsors of new fixed 
        guideway capital projects, core capacity improvement projects, 
        or corridor-based bus rapid transit projects not yet open to 
        revenue service, notwithstanding applicable requirements 
        regarding Government share of contributions toward net project 
        cost of the project or the share of contributions from a 
        program carried out by the Administrator of the Federal Transit 
        Administration, if--
                    (A) the applicant demonstrates that the 
                availability of funding under this section provides 
                additional support for access to affordable housing and 
                the enhancement of mobility for residents in 
                disadvantaged communities or neighborhoods, persistent 
                poverty communities, or for low-income riders generally 
                in the service area of the recipient, consistent with 
                the purposes described in subsection (b); and
                    (B) assistance under this paragraph does not 
                increase by more than 10 percentage points--
                            (i) the Government share of contributions 
                        toward net project cost; or
                            (ii) the Government share of assistance 
                        from a program carried out by the Administrator 
                        of the Federal Transit Administration;
            (10) fleet transition, route, or other public 
        transportation planning, including planning related to economic 
        development; or
            (11) projects to upgrade the accessibility of bus or rail 
        public transportation services for persons with disabilities, 
        including individuals who use wheelchairs, in disadvantaged 
        communities or neighborhoods.
    (e) Administrative Expenses.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any funds 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, for the following:
            (1) The costs of administering and overseeing the 
        implementation of this section.
            (2) To make new awards or to increase prior awards to 
        provide technical assistance and capacity building for eligible 
        recipients or subrecipients under this section.

SEC. 110002. COMMUNITY CLIMATE INCENTIVE GRANTS.

    (a) Federal Highway Administration Appropriation.--In addition to 
amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 
2022, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$50,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to the 
Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration--
            (1) to establish a greenhouse gas performance measure that 
        requires States to set performance targets to reduce greenhouse 
        gas emissions;
            (2) to establish an incentive structure to reward States 
        that demonstrate the most significant progress towards 
        achieving reductions in greenhouse gas emissions;
            (3) to establish consequences for States that do not 
        achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions;
            (4) to issue guidance and regulations, and provide 
        technical assistance, as necessary to implement this section; 
        and
            (5) from any remaining amounts after carrying out 
        paragraphs (1) through (4), for operations and administration 
        of the Federal Highway Administration.
    (b) Grants to States.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any funds in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $950,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2026, to the Administrator of the Federal Highway 
Administration, for incentive grants for carbon reduction projects, to 
be awarded to States that--
            (1) qualify for a reward under the incentive structure 
        established by the Administrator under subsection (a)(2); or
            (2) have adopted carbon reduction strategies that 
        contribute to achieving net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 
        2050, and have incorporated such strategies into the 
        transportation plans required under section 135 of title 23, 
        United States Code.
    (c) Grants to Other Eligible Entities.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $3,000,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2026, to the Administrator of 
the Federal Highway Administration for grants, to be awarded on a 
competitive basis, for carbon reduction projects to eligible entities 
that are not States.
    (d) Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Funds made available under subsections (b) 
        and (c) shall be administered as if made available under 
        chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code, and a project 
        carried out under this section shall be treated as a project on 
        a Federal-aid highway under such chapter.
            (2) Grants to states.--Funds made available under 
        subsection (b) administered by or through a State department of 
        transportation shall be expended in compliance with the 
        requirements of part 26 of title 49, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
    (e) Federal Share.--
            (1) In general.--The Federal share for a recipient of funds 
        that is not a State under this section may be up to 100 
        percent.
            (2) States.--The Federal share for a recipient of funds 
        under this section that is a State shall be determined in 
        accordance with section 120 of title 23, United States Code.
    (f) Limitation.--Funds made available under this section shall 
not--
            (1) be subject to any restriction or limitation on the 
        total amount of funds available for implementation or execution 
        of programs authorized for Federal-aid highways; and
            (2) be used for projects that result in additional through 
        travel lanes for single occupant passenger vehicles.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Carbon reduction project.--A carbon reduction project 
        means a project that is eligible under title 23, United State 
        Code, and that--
                    (A) will result in significant reductions in 
                greenhouse gas emissions related to a surface 
                transportation facility or project;
                    (B) provides zero-emission transportation options;
                    (C) reduces dependence on single-occupant vehicle 
                trips; or
                    (D) advances carbon reduction strategies adopted by 
                an eligible entity that contribute to achieving net-
                zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
            (2) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a unit of local government;
                    (B) a political subdivision of a State;
                    (C) a territory;
                    (D) a metropolitan planning organization (as 
                defined in section 134 of title 23, United States 
                Code);
                    (E) a special purpose district or public authority 
                with a transportation function;
                    (F) a recipient of funds under section 202 of title 
                23, United State Code; or
                    (G) a State.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101 of title 23, United States Code.

SEC. 110003. NEIGHBORHOOD ACCESS AND EQUITY GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any funds in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $3,950,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, to the Administrator of the Federal Highway 
Administration--
            (1) for grants to eligible entities described in subsection 
        (b) to improve walkability, safety, and affordable 
        transportation access through construction (as such term is 
        defined in section 101 of title 23, United States Code) of 
        projects that are context sensitive--
                    (A) to remove, remediate, or reuse a facility 
                described in subsection (c)(1);
                    (B) to replace a facility described in subsection 
                (c)(1) with a facility that is at-grade or lower speed;
                    (C) to retrofit or cap a facility described in 
                subsection (c)(1);
                    (D) to build or improve complete streets, multiuse 
                trails, regional greenways, or active transportation 
                networks or spines; or
                    (E) to provide affordable access to essential 
                destinations, public spaces, or transportation links 
                and hubs;
            (2) for mitigation grants to eligible entities described in 
        subsection (b) to remediate negative impacts on the human or 
        natural environment resulting from a facility described in 
        subsection (c)(2) in a disadvantaged or underserved community, 
        including construction (as such term is defined in section 101 
        of title 23, United States Code) of--
                    (A) noise barriers to reduce impacts resulting from 
                a facility described in subsection (c)(2);
                    (B) technologies, infrastructure, and activities to 
                reduce surface transportation-related air pollution, 
                including greenhouse gas emissions;
                    (C) infrastructure or protective features to reduce 
                or manage stormwater run-off resulting from a facility 
                described in subsection (c)(2), including through 
                natural infrastructure and pervious, permeable, or 
                porous pavement;
                    (D) infrastructure and natural features to reduce, 
                or to mitigate, urban heat island hot spots in the 
                transportation right of way or on surface 
                transportation facilities; or
                    (E) safety improvements for vulnerable road users; 
                and
            (3) for grants to eligible entities described in subsection 
        (b) for planning and capacity building activities in 
        disadvantaged or underserved communities to--
                    (A) identify, monitor, or assess local and ambient 
                air quality, emissions of transportation greenhouse 
                gases, hot spot areas of extreme heat or elevated air 
                pollution, gaps in tree canopy coverage, or flood prone 
                locations;
                    (B) assess transportation equity or pollution 
                impacts and develop local anti-displacement policies 
                and community benefit agreements;
                    (C) conduct predevelopment activities for projects 
                eligible under this subsection;
                    (D) expand public participation in transportation 
                planning by individuals and organizations in 
                disadvantaged or underserved communities; or
                    (E) administer or obtain technical assistance 
                related to activities described in this subsection.
    (b) Eligible Entities Described.--An eligible entity referred to in 
subsection (a) is--
            (1) a State (as such term is defined in section 101 of 
        title 23, United States Code);
            (2) a unit of local government;
            (3) a political subdivision of a State (as such term is 
        defined in section 101 of title 23, United States Code);
            (4) a recipient of funds under section 202 of title 23, 
        United States Code;
            (5) a territory of the United States;
            (6) a metropolitan planning organization (as defined in 
        section 134(b) of title 23, United States Code); or
            (7) with respect to a grant described in subsection (a)(3), 
        in addition to an eligible entity described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6), a nonprofit organization or institution of higher 
        education that has entered into a partnership with an eligible 
        entity described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
    (c) Facility Described.--A facility is--
            (1) a surface transportation facility for which high 
        speeds, grade separation, or other design factors create an 
        obstacle to connectivity within a community; or
            (2) a surface transportation facility which is a source of 
        air pollution, noise, stormwater, or other burden to a 
        disadvantaged or underserved community.
    (d) Local Technical Assistance.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any funds 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, to the Administrator of the Federal 
Highway Administration for--
            (1) guidance, technical assistance, templates, training, or 
        tools to facilitate efficient and effective contracting, 
        design, and project delivery by units of local government;
            (2) subgrants to units of local government to build 
        capacity of such local government to assume responsibilities to 
        deliver surface transportation projects; and
            (3) operations and administration of the Federal Highway 
        Administration.
    (e) Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall provide grants to 
        eligible entities described in subsection (b) that submit an 
        application to the Administrator at such time, in such manner, 
        and containing such information as the Administration requires.
            (2) Minimum investment.--Not less than $1,580,000,000 of 
        funds made available under subsection (a) shall be distributed 
        for projects in communities that--
                    (A) are economically disadvantaged, including an 
                underserved community or a community located in an area 
                of persistent poverty;
                    (B) have entered or will enter into a community 
                benefits agreement with representatives of the 
                community;
                    (C) have an anti-displacement policy, a community 
                land trust, or a community advisory board in effect; or
                    (D) have demonstrated a plan for employing local 
                residents in the area impacted by the activity or 
                project proposed under this section.
    (f) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--Amounts made available under subsection 
        (a) shall be administered as if made available under chapter 1 
        of title 23, United States Code, and a project carried out 
        under this section shall be treated as a project on a Federal-
        aid highway under such chapter.
            (2) Grants to states.--Funds made available under 
        subsection (a) administered by or through a State department of 
        transportation shall be expended in compliance with the 
        requirements of part 26 of title 49, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
    (g) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of an activity 
carried out using a grant awarded under this section shall be not more 
than 80 percent, except that the Federal share of the cost of a project 
in a disadvantaged or underserved community may be up to 100 percent.
    (h) Limitations.--Funds made available under this section shall 
not--
            (1) be subject to any restriction or limitation on the 
        total amount of funds available for implementation or execution 
        of programs authorized for Federal-aid highways; and
            (2) be used for a project for additional through travel 
        lanes for single-occupant passenger vehicles.

SEC. 110004. FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION SECTION 202 FUNDS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise made available, 
there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any funds in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, to the Administrator of the Federal 
Highway Administration for the purposes described under section 202 of 
title 23, United States Code.
    (b) Distribution of Funds.--The Administrator of the Federal 
Highway Administration shall administer amounts made available under 
subsection (a) as if allocated under section 202 of title 23, United 
States Code.
    (c) Limitation.--Funds made available under this section shall not 
be subject to any restriction or limitation on the total amount of 
funds available for implementation or execution of programs authorized 
for Federal-aid highways.

SEC. 110005. TERRITORIAL HIGHWAY PROGRAM FUNDING.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise made available, 
there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any funds in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $320,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2026, to the Administrator of the Federal Highway 
Administration for the purposes described under section 165(c) of title 
23, United States Code.
    (b) Administration of Funds.--The Administrator of the Federal 
Highway Administration shall administer amounts made available under 
subsection (a) as if allocated under section 165(c) of title 23, United 
States Code.
    (c) Limitation.--Funds made available under this section shall not 
be subject to any restriction or limitation on the total amount of 
funds available for implementation or execution of programs authorized 
for Federal-aid highways.

SEC. 110006. TRAFFIC SAFETY CLEARINGHOUSE.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise made available, 
there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any funds in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000 to remain available 
until September 30, 2026, for the Administrator of the National Highway 
Traffic Safety Administration to make 1 or more grants, cooperative 
agreements, or contracts with 1 or more qualified institutions to--
            (1) operate a national clearinghouse for fair and equitable 
        traffic safety enforcement programs;
            (2) research and develop systems for States to collect 
        traffic safety enforcement data and provide technical 
        assistance to States collecting such data, including the 
        sharing of data to a national database;
            (3) develop recommendations and best practices to help 
        States collect and use traffic safety enforcement data to 
        promote equity and reduce traffic-related fatalities and 
        injuries; and
            (4) develop information and educational programs on 
        implementing equitable traffic safety enforcement best 
        practices to assist States and local communities.
    (b) Administration.--Not more than 5 percent of the amounts made 
available under this section may be used for salaries, expenses, and 
administration of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.

SEC. 110007. AUTOMATED VEHICLES AND MOBILITY INNOVATION.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any funds in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $8,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2026, to the Secretary of Transportation to make a grant to a 
qualified institution of higher education to--
            (1) operate a national highly automated vehicle and 
        mobility innovation clearinghouse;
            (2) collect, conduct, and support research on the secondary 
        and societal impacts of highly automated vehicles and mobility 
        innovation on the built environment; and
            (3) disseminate and make such research available on a 
        public website to assist communities.

SEC. 110008. LOCAL TRANSPORTATION PRIORITIES.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise made available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$6,000,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2026, for 
projects to advance local surface transportation priorities.
    (b) Davis Bacon Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--All laborers and mechanics employed by 
        contractors or subcontractors in the performance of 
        construction, alteration, or repair work carried out, in whole 
        or in part, with assistance made available under this section 
        shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on 
        projects of a character similar in the locality as determined 
        by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with subchapter IV of 
        chapter 31 of title 40, United States Code.
            (2) Authority and functions.--With respect to the labor 
        standards specified in this subsection, the Secretary of Labor 
        shall have the authority and functions set forth in 
        Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1267; 5 
        U.S.C. App.) and section 3145 of title 40, United States Code.

SEC. 110009. PASSENGER RAIL IMPROVEMENT, MODERNIZATION, AND EMISSIONS 
              REDUCTION GRANTS.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$10,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, for 
financial assistance under chapter 261 of title 49, United States Code, 
to eligible entities for eligible projects.
    (b) Allocation.--Of the funds provided pursuant to subsection (a), 
not less than 10 percent shall be used for eligible projects as 
described under subsection (e)(1)(A).
    (c) Federal Share.--For any financial assistance provided pursuant 
to this section, the Federal share may not exceed 90 percent of the 
total cost of the eligible project.
    (d) Oversight.--Not more than 1 percent of the amounts made 
available under subsection (a) shall be for the use of the Secretary of 
Transportation for the costs of award and project management of 
financial assistance provided under this section.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible project.--The term ``eligible project'' 
        means--
                    (A) a planning project for high-speed rail corridor 
                development that consists of planning activities 
                eligible to receive financial assistance under section 
                26101(b) of title 49, United States Code; or
                    (B) a capital project for high-speed rail corridor 
                development that--
                            (i) directly serves rail stations within 
                        urban areas, as published by the Bureau of the 
                        Census, that are located in close proximity to 
                        a census tract, as published by the Bureau of 
                        the Census, within the urban area that has a 
                        greater population density than the urban area 
                        as a whole; and
                            (ii) is eligible to receive financial 
                        assistance for a capital project, as defined in 
                        section 26106(b)(3) of title 49, United States 
                        Code.
            (2) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) an entity eligible to receive financial 
                assistance under section 26101 of title 49, United 
                States Code; or
                    (B) an applicant eligible to receive a grant under 
                section 26106 of title 49, United States Code.
            (3) High-speed rail.--The term ``high-speed rail'' means 
        non-highway ground transportation that is owned or operated by 
        an eligible entity and reasonably expected to reach speeds of 
        160 miles per hour or more on shared-use right-of-way or 186 
        miles per hour or more on dedicated right-of-way.
            (4) Corridor.--The term ``corridor'' means an existing, 
        modified, or proposed intercity passenger rail service, as 
        defined in section 26106(b) of title 49, United States Code.

SEC. 110010. RAILROAD REHABILITATION INFRASTRUCTURE AND FINANCING 
              CREDIT RISK PREMIUM ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $150,000,000, in 
fiscal year 2022, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to 
provide credit risk premium assistance to eligible entities through the 
railroad rehabilitation infrastructure and financing program 
established by title V of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory 
Reform Act of 1976.
    (b) Eligible Entities.--For purposes of this section, eligible 
entities shall include--
            (1) railroad carriers as defined in section 20102 of title 
        49, United States Code;
            (2) State or local governments; or
            (3) government-sponsored authorities or corporations.
    (c) Allocation.--
            (1) Public passenger rail projects.--Not less than 50 
        percent of the amounts appropriated under subsection (a) shall 
        be set aside for publicly owned or operated passenger rail 
        projects.
            (2) Freight railroads.--Not less than 25 percent of the 
        amounts appropriated under subsection (a) shall be set aside 
        for freight railroads that are not Class I railroads.

SEC. 110011. ALTERNATIVE FUEL AND LOW-EMISSION AVIATION TECHNOLOGY 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise made available, 
there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, for the Secretary of Transportation 
to provide grants to, and enter into cost-sharing agreements with, 
eligible entities to carry out projects located in the United States 
that--
            (1) develop, demonstrate, or apply low-emission aviation 
        technologies; or
            (2) produce, transport, blend, or store sustainable 
        aviation fuels that would reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
        attributable to the operation of aircraft that have fuel uplift 
        in the United States.
    (b) Selection.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
consider, with respect to a proposed project--
            (1) the anticipated public benefits of the project;
            (2) the potential to increase the domestic production and 
        deployment of sustainable aviation fuel or the use of low-
        emission aviation technologies among the United States 
        commercial aviation and aerospace industry;
            (3) the potential for creating new jobs in the United 
        States;
            (4) the potential the project has to reduce or displace, on 
        a lifecycle basis, United States greenhouse gas emissions 
        associated with air travel;
            (5) the proposed utilization of non-Federal cost-share 
        contributions;
            (6) for projects related to the production of sustainable 
        aviation fuel, the potential net greenhouse gas emissions 
        impact of such fuel on a lifecycle basis, which shall include 
        feedstock, fuel production, and potential direct and indirect 
        greenhouse gas emissions (including resulting from changes in 
        land use);
            (7) how the project will strengthen the leadership of the 
        United States in either sustainable aviation fuels or in low-
        emission aviation technologies;
            (8) the benefits of ensuring a diversity of feedstocks for 
        sustainable aviation fuel, including the use of waste carbon 
        oxides and direct air capture;
            (9) the potential for partnerships with relevant supply 
        chain stakeholders for sustainable aviation fuel;
            (10) the potential to leverage existing industrial 
        infrastructure to accelerate the deployment of sustainable 
        aviation fuels;
            (11) aeronautical construction and design improvements that 
        result in more efficient aircraft, including new aircraft 
        architectures, innovative propulsion integration, and high-
        performance lightweight materials;
            (12) more efficient aircraft engines, including innovative 
        engine architectures, hybrid-electric engines, and all-electric 
        engines suitable for fully or partially powering aircraft 
        operations; and
            (13) air traffic management and navigation technologies 
        that permit more efficient flight patterns.
    (c) Funding Distribution.--Of the amount made available under 
subsection (a), 30 percent of such amount shall be awarded for projects 
described in subsection (a)(1) and 70 percent of such amount shall be 
awarded for projects described in subsection (a)(2).
    (d) Federal Cost Share.--The Secretary shall determine a higher 
Federal share of project costs for any cost-share agreement or grant 
awarded to any eligible recipient for a project under subsection (a) 
that involves a low-emission aviation technology that exceeds a 20 
percent reduction in fuel burn compared to current best in class 
aircraft or a sustainable aviation fuel that substantially exceeds a 50 
percent lifecycle greenhouse gas emission reduction compared to 
conventional jet fuels.
    (e) Program Requirements.--As a condition of receiving funds under 
this section, the Secretary may approve an award under this section 
only if the Secretary has received written assurances from the 
recipient that--
            (1) any low-emission aviation technology that is funded or 
        is part of a project funded by a grant under subsection (a)(1) 
        is produced in the United States;
            (2) any sustainable aviation fuel that is part of a project 
        funded by a grant under subsection (a)(2) is--
                    (A) produced in the United States; and
                    (B) is not derived from feedstocks that are 
                developed through practices that threaten mass 
                deforestation, harm biodiversity, or otherwise promote 
                environmentally unsustainable processes; and
            (3) the recipient of grant funding has adequately 
        considered the environmental justice and equity impacts of any 
        project on underserved communities.
    (f) Development Projects.--Section 47112(a) of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting ``or labor for a project funded 
under section 110011 of the Act entitled `An Act to provide for 
reconciliation pursuant to title II of S. Con. Res. 14''' after ``this 
subchapter''.
    (g) Administrative Expenses.--The Secretary may retain up to 1 
percent of the funds provided under this section to fund the award of, 
and oversight by the Secretary of, grants made under this section.
    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a State or local government other than an 
                airport sponsor;
                    (B) an air carrier;
                    (C) an airport sponsor;
                    (D) an accredited institution of higher education;
                    (E) a person or entity engaged in the production, 
                transportation, blending or storage of sustainable 
                aviation fuel or feedstocks that could be used to 
                produce sustainable aviation fuel;
                    (F) a person or entity engaged in the development, 
                demonstration, or application of low-emission aviation 
                technologies; or
                    (G) nonprofit entities or nonprofit consortia with 
                experience in sustainable aviation fuel, low-emission 
                technology, or other clean transportation research 
                programs.
            (2) Low-emission aviation technology.--The term ``low-
        emission aviation technology'' means technologies that 
        significantly--
                    (A) improve aircraft fuel efficiency;
                    (B) increase utilization of sustainable aviation 
                fuels; or
                    (C) reduce greenhouse gas emissions produced during 
                operation of civil aircraft.
            (3) Sustainable aviation fuel.--The term ``sustainable 
        aviation fuel'' means liquid fuel that--
                    (A) consists of synthesized hydrocarbons;
                    (B) meets the requirements of--
                            (i) ASTM International Standard D7566; or
                            (ii) the co-processing provisions of ASTM 
                        International Standard D1655, Annex A1 (or such 
                        successor standard);
                    (C) is derived from biomass (as such term is 
                defined in section 45K(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue 
                Code of 1986), waste streams, renewable energy sources 
                or gaseous carbon oxides;
                    (D) is not derived from palm fatty acid 
                distillates; and
                    (E) achieves at least a 50 percent lifecycle 
                greenhouse gas emissions reduction in comparison with 
                petroleum-based jet fuel, as determined by a test that 
                shows--
                            (i) the fuel production pathway achieves at 
                        least a 50 percent reduction of the aggregate 
                        attributional core lifecycle greenhouse gas 
                        emissions and the induced land use change 
                        values under the lifecycle methodology for 
                        sustainable aviation fuel adopted by the 
                        International Civil Aviation Organization for 
                        the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for 
                        International Aviation with the agreement of 
                        the United States; or
                            (ii) the fuel production pathway achieves 
                        at least a 50 percent reduction of the 
                        aggregate attributional core lifecycle 
                        greenhouse gas emissions values under another 
                        methodology that the Secretary, in consultation 
                        with the Administrator of the Environmental 
                        Protection Agency, determines is--
                                    (I) reflective of the latest 
                                scientific understanding of lifecycle 
                                greenhouse gas emissions; and
                                    (II) as stringent as the 
                                requirement under clause (i).
    (i) Time Limit for Adoption of New Sustainable Aviation Fuel 
Emissions Reduction Test.--For purposes of clause (ii) of subsection 
(h)(3)(E), the Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency, shall, not later than 2 years after 
the date of the enactment of this section, adopt at least 1 methodology 
for testing lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions that meets the 
requirements of such clause.

SEC. 110012. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CARBON OFFSETTING AND REDUCTION 
              SCHEME FOR INTERNATIONAL AVIATION.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise made available, 
there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $6,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2026, for the Secretary of Transportation to ensure 
the United States complies with its obligations with respect to volume 
IV of annex 16 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation (61 
Stat. 1180) (``Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International 
Aviation'', hereinafter ``CORSIA'').
    (b) Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall issue regulations with 
        requirements to ensure the United States complies with the 
        obligations referenced in subsection (a), including 
        requirements for operators of civil aircraft of the United 
        States with respect to--
                    (A) monitoring, reporting, and verifying quantities 
                of carbon emissions covered under the CORSIA, 
                cancelling eligible emissions units and reporting and 
                verifying such cancellations, and reporting use of 
                CORSIA eligible fuels; and
                    (B) submission of such information as the Secretary 
                determines is necessary with respect to implementation 
                of the CORSIA.
            (2) Standards and recommended practices.--Regulations 
        issued under this subsection shall be consistent with 
        applicable standards and recommended practices published in 
        volume IV of annex 16 to the Convention on International Civil 
        Aviation (61 Stat. 1180) and associated implementation 
        elements, adopted by the International Civil Aviation 
        Organization prior to enactment of this Act, and any amendments 
        or updates to such standards and related documents with which 
        the United States concurs.
    (c) Reports.--Not later than December 31, 2022, and every 3 years 
thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Technology of the Senate a 
report assessing the compliance of operators of civil aircraft 
registered in the United States with regulations issued under this 
section as well as the standards and recommended practices referenced 
in subsection (b)(2), as applicable.

SEC. 110013. ASSISTANCE TO UPDATE AND ENFORCE HAZARD RESISTANT CODES 
              AND STANDARDS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $291,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency to carry out activities described in section 203(i) of the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5133(i)), notwithstanding section 203(f)(2) of such Act (42 
U.S.C. 5133(f)(2)), including for activities and grants that provide 
technical assistance and capacity building for State, local, Indian 
Tribal, or territorial governments for establishing, implementing, and 
carrying out enforcement activities of the latest published editions of 
relevant performance-based and consensus-based codes, specifications, 
and standards that incorporate hazard-resistant designs and the latest 
requirements for the maintenance and inspection of existing buildings 
to address hazard risk.
    (b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the assistance provided in 
this section shall be 100 percent.
    (c) Administration.--In addition to amounts made available for 
administrative expenses under section 205(d)(2) of the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5135(d)(2)), there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise available, $9,000,000 to the 
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, to remain 
available until expended, for administration of this section.

SEC. 110014. HAZARD MITIGATION REVOLVING LOAN FUND.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $495,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency for the establishment and carrying out of hazard mitigation 
revolving loan fund grants under section 205 of the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5135).
    (b) Administration.--In addition to amounts made available for 
administrative expenses under section 205(d)(2) of the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5135(d)(2)), there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise available, $5,000,000 to the 
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, to remain 
available until expended, for administration of this section.

SEC. 110015. UPGRADING PUBLIC ALERT AND WARNING.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $24,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2024, to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency to upgrade the Integrated Public Alert and Warning 
System for implementation of the Next Generation Warning System.
    (b) Assistance to Certain Entities.--In carrying out subsection 
(a), the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency is 
authorized to issue noncompetitive, risk-informed financial assistance 
to public broadcasting entities, as defined in section 397 of the 
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 397).
    (c) Administration.--In addition to amounts made available for 
administrative expenses under section 205(d)(2) of the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5135(d)(2)), there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise available, $1,000,000 to the 
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, for administration of this section.

SEC. 110016. FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FOR EMERGENCY MANAGERS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $412,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency for grants for construction, retrofit, technological 
enhancement, and updated requirements of State, local, Indian Tribal, 
and territorial emergency operations centers under section 614 of the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5196c). A State may provide grant funds under this subsection to 
local governments and Tribal governments to carry out the activities 
for which such funds are provided.
    (b) Administration.--In addition to amounts made available for 
administrative expenses under section 205(d)(2) of the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5135(d)(2)), there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise available, $13,000,000 to the 
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, to remain 
available until expended, for administration of this section.
    (c) Limitation.--The amount of a project under a grant provided 
under this section may not exceed $4,000,000.
    (d) Code Compliance.--In using funds under subsection (a), a grant 
recipient shall act in compliance with the latest published editions of 
relevant consensus-based codes, specifications, and standards that 
incorporate the latest hazard resistant designs and establish minimum 
acceptable criteria for the design, construction, and maintenance of 
structures and facilities for the purpose of protecting the health, 
safety, and general welfare of the building users against disasters.

SEC. 110017. FEMA PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND IMPROVEMENTS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $200,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2026, to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
for the construction, renovation, retrofit, technological enhancement, 
and updated requirements of Federal emergency training centers and 
Federal emergency operations centers.

SEC. 110018. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Economic Development Assistance for Regional Economic Growth 
Clusters.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is 
appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $4,000,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2027, to the Secretary of Commerce for grants under 
section 209 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 
(42 U.S.C. 3149) to develop regional economic growth clusters, subject 
to the condition that sections 204 and 301 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 3144 
and 3161) shall not apply to grants made with amounts made available 
under this subsection.
    (b) Economic Adjustment Assistance.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2027, to the Secretary of 
Commerce for economic adjustment assistance as authorized by section 
209 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 
3149), of which--
            (1) $500,000,000 shall be to provide assistance to energy 
        and industrial transition communities, including coal, oil and 
        gas, and nuclear transition communities; and
            (2) $50,000,000 shall be to provide grants for project 
        predevelopment and capacity building activities, including 
        activities relating to the writing of grant applications 
        (consistent with section 213 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 3153)) and 
        stipends to local community organizations for planning 
        participation, community outreach and engagement activities, 
        subject to the conditions that--
                    (A) sections 204 and 301 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
                3144 and 3161) shall not apply to grants made with 
                amounts made available under this paragraph; and
                    (B) not less than 50 percent of the amounts made 
                available under this paragraph shall be for activities 
                that are carried out in underserved communities.
    (c) Grants for Public Works and Economic Development.--In addition 
to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$500,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2027, to the 
Secretary of Commerce for public works projects as authorized by 
section 201 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 
(42 U.S.C. 3141).
    (d) Administration.--Not more than 3 percent of the amounts made 
available under this section shall be used for the administrative costs 
of carrying out this section.

SEC. 110019. RECOMPETE PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) Economic Development Administration Appropriation.--In addition 
to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$4,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, to the 
Department of Commerce for economic adjustment assistance as authorized 
by section 209 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 
(42 U.S.C. 3149) to establish a pilot program, to be known as the 
``Recompete Pilot Program'', to provide grants to specified entities to 
carry out activities in eligible areas and Tribal lands for which a 
specified entity has jurisdiction or otherwise serves to support local 
labor markets, local communities, and Tribal governments to alleviate 
persistent economic distress and labor market dislocation, except that 
sections 204 and 301 of such Act shall not apply to a grant provided 
under this section.
    (b) Term.--A grant shall have a term of 10 fiscal years and be 
disbursed at such time and in such manner as determined by the 
Secretary of Commerce in accordance with benchmarking requirements 
established by the Secretary.
    (c) Use of Funds.--Of the funds provided by this section--
            (1) not less than $3,855,000,000 shall be used for grants 
        to be awarded to at least 15 specified entities representing 
        eligible areas to carry out activities described in a recompete 
        plan approved by the Secretary of Commerce;
            (2) not more than $25,000,000 may be used for planning and 
        technical assistance grants to be awarded to not more than 50 
        specified entities representing eligible areas to develop a 
        recompete plan and carry out predevelopment activities; and
            (3) not more than 3 percent shall be used for the 
        administrative costs of carrying out this section.
    (d) Limitations.--
            (1) Eligible areas.--An eligible area may not benefit from 
        more than 1 grant and 1 grant described in subsection (c)(2).
            (2) Limitation on recipients.--For purposes of the program 
        under this section, a specified entity may not receive a grant 
        on behalf of more than 1 eligible area.
    (e) Maximum Award Amount.--In determining the maximum amount of a 
grant that a specified entity may be awarded, the Secretary shall use 
the product obtained by multiplying--
            (1) the prime-age employment gap of the eligible area;
            (2) the prime-age population of the eligible area; and
            (3) either--
                    (A) $70,585 for local labor markets; or
                    (B) $53,600 for local communities.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible area.--The term ``eligible area'' means either 
        of the following:
                    (A) A local labor market that--
                            (i) has a prime-age employment gap equal to 
                        not less than 2.5 percent; and
                            (ii) meets additional criteria as the 
                        Secretary may establish.
                    (B) A local community that--
                            (i) has a prime-age employment gap equal to 
                        not less than 5 percent;
                            (ii) is not located within an eligible 
                        local labor market that meets the criteria 
                        described in subparagraph (A); and
                            (iii) has a median annual household income 
                        of not more than $75,000.
            (2) Local labor market.--The term ``local labor market'' 
        means any of the following areas that contains 1 or more 
        specified entities described in subparagraphs (A) through (D) 
        of paragraph (5):
                    (A) A commuting zone, as defined by the Economic 
                Research Service of the Department of Agriculture, 
                excluding all core-based statistical areas within the 
                commuting zone described in subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Subject to subparagraph (C), if 1 or more 
                discrete metropolitan statistical areas or micropolitan 
                statistical areas, as defined by the Office of 
                Management and Budget (collectively referred to as 
                ``core-based statistical areas''), exists within a 
                commuting zone described in subparagraph (A), each such 
                core-based statistical area.
                    (C) If the remaining area of a commuting zone 
                described in subparagraph (A), excluding all core-based 
                statistical areas within the commuting zone described 
                in subparagraph (B), contains 1 or fewer counties and 
                has a population of 7,500 or fewer residents, that 
                remaining area combined with an adjacent core-based 
                statistical area within the commuting zone.
                    (D) The Tribal land with a Tribal prime-age 
                population represented by a Tribal government.
            (3) Local community.--The term ``local community'' means 
        the area served by a specified entity described in 
        subparagraphs (A) through (C) of paragraph (5) that--
                    (A)(i) is located within a local labor market or 
                partial local labor market that is not eligible; or
                    (ii) is not coexistent with, or encompassing the 
                entirety of, a local labor market; and
                    (B) meets such additional criteria, including a 
                minimum population requirement, as the Secretary may 
                establish.
            (4) Prime-age employment gap.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``prime-age employment 
                gap'' means the difference (expressed as a percentage) 
                between--
                            (i) the national 5-year average prime-age 
                        employment rate; and
                            (ii) the 5-year average prime-age 
                        employment rate of the eligible area.
                    (B) Calculation.--For the purposes of subparagraph 
                (A), an individual is prime-age if such individual 
                between the ages of 25 years and 54 years.
            (5) Recompete plan.--The term ``recompete plan'' means a 
        comprehensive 10-year economic development plan that--
                    (A) includes--
                            (i) proposed programs and activities to be 
                        carried out with a grant awarded under this 
                        section to address the economic challenges of 
                        the eligible area in a manner that promotes 
                        long-term, sustained economic growth and 
                        reduction in the prime-age employment gap of 
                        the eligible area;
                            (ii) projected costs and annual 
                        expenditures and proposed disbursement 
                        schedule; and
                            (iii) other information as the Secretary 
                        determines appropriate;
                    (B) is developed by a specified entity that is the 
                recipient of a planning and technical assistance grant 
                described in subsection (c)(2); and
                    (C) is submitted to the Secretary for approval for 
                a specified entity to be considered for a grant under 
                this section.
            (6) Specified entity.--The term ``specified entity'' 
        means--
                    (A) a unit of local government;
                    (B) the District of Columbia;
                    (C) a territory or possession of the United States;
                    (D) a Tribal government;
                    (E) a State-authorized political subdivision or 
                other entity, including a special-purpose entity 
                engaged in economic development activities;
                    (F) a public entity or nonprofit organization, 
                acting in cooperation with the officials of a political 
                subdivision or entity described in subparagraph (E);
                    (G) an economic development district (as defined in 
                section 3 of the Public Works and Economic Development 
                Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3122); and
                    (H) a consortium of any of the specified entities 
                described in this paragraph which serve or are 
                contained within the same eligible area.
            (7) Tribal government.--The term ``Tribal government'' 
        means the recognized governing body of any Indian or Alaska 
        Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, community, 
        component band, or component reservation, individually 
        identified (including parenthetically) in the list published by 
        the Bureau of Indian Affairs on January 29, 2021, pursuant to 
        section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act 
        of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 5131).
            (8) Tribal land.--The term ``Tribal land'' means any land--
                    (A) any land located within the boundaries of an 
                Indian reservation, pueblo, or rancheria; or
                    (B) any land not located within the boundaries of 
                an Indian reservation, pueblo, or rancheria, the title 
                to which is held--
                            (i) in trust by the United States for the 
                        benefit of an Indian Tribe or an individual 
                        Indian;
                            (ii) by an Indian Tribe or an individual 
                        Indian, subject to restriction against 
                        alienation under laws of the United States; or
                            (iii) by a dependent Indian community.
            (9) Tribal prime-age population.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``Tribal prime-age 
                population'' shall be equal to the sum obtained by 
                adding--
                            (i) the product obtained by multiplying--
                                    (I) the total number of individuals 
                                ages 25 through 54 residing on the 
                                Tribal land of the Tribal government; 
                                and
                                    (II) 0.65; and
                            (ii) the product obtained by multiplying--
                                    (I) the total number of individuals 
                                ages 25 through 54 included on the 
                                membership roll of the Tribal 
                                government; and
                                    (II) 0.35.
                    (B) Use of date.--A calculation under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be determined based on data provided by the 
                applicable Tribal government to the Department of the 
                Treasury under the Coronavirus State and Local Fiscal 
                Recovery Fund programs under title VI of the Social 
                Security Act (42 U.S.C. 801 et seq.).

SEC. 110020. ASSISTANCE FOR FEDERAL BUILDINGS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $1,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, to be deposited in the Federal Buildings Fund established under 
section 592 of title 40, United States Code, for measures necessary to 
convert facilities of the Administrator of General Services to high-
performance green buildings (as defined in section 401 of the Energy 
Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17061)).

SEC. 110021. TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION AND CLIMATE RESILIENCE IN MARITIME 
              SECTOR.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2027, to the Maritime Administration, for the maritime environmental 
and technical assistance program under section 50307 of title 46, 
United States Code, to reduce carbon emissions, reduce vessel noise 
pollution, and improve the climate resiliency of the marine shipping 
and the maritime industry.

SEC. 110022. CLIMATE RESILIENT COAST GUARD INFRASTRUCTURE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $1,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, to the account under the heading ``Coast Guard Procurement, 
Construction, and Improvements'', for the acquisition, design, and 
construction of new, or replacement of existing, climate resilient 
facilities, including personnel readiness facilities such as family 
support services facilities, that are threatened by or have been 
impacted by climate change, as authorized under sections 504(e) and 
1101(b)(1) of title 14, United States Code. The Coast Guard shall 
return to the Treasury any funds appropriated under this section that 
have not been expended by September 30, 2031.

SEC. 110023. GREAT LAKES ICEBREAKER ACQUISITION.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of funds in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $350,000,000, to remain available until September, 30, 
2031, to the Coast Guard, for acquisition, design, and construction of 
a Great Lakes heavy icebreaker, as authorized under section 8107 of the 
William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283). The Coast Guard shall return to 
the Treasury any funds appropriated under this section that have not 
been expended by September 30, 2031.

SEC. 110024. POLAR SECURITY CUTTERS AND CLIMATE SCIENCE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $788,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, to the Coast Guard, for the acquisition of the fourth heavy Polar 
Security Cutter, including scientific laboratory and berthing 
facilities, to expand access for scientists to the polar regions, to 
improve climate and weather research, for other polar missions, and for 
other purposes, as authorized under section 561 of title 14, United 
States Code.

SEC. 110025. SMALL SHIPYARD GRANTS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $300,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2027, to the Maritime Administration for the purposes of making grants 
under the assistance for small shipyards program, as authorized by 
section 54101 of title 46, United States Code, to improve the climate 
resiliency and environmental sustainability of the maritime industry 
and maritime transportation system, including workforce training and 
equipment acquisition projects that improve the efficiency of shipyard 
operations, vessel construction and vessel repair. The deadlines 
established in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (b) and paragraph 
(1) of subsection (f) of section 54101 of such title shall not apply to 
amounts made available in this section, and the Secretary of 
Transportation may carry out multiple rounds of competition.

SEC. 110026. PORT INFRASTRUCTURE AND SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $2,500,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2027, to the Maritime Administration for the purposes of making grants 
for projects to support supply chain resilience, reduction in port 
congestion, the development of offshore wind support infrastructure, 
and environmental remediation, projects to reduce the impact of ports 
on the environment, and for other purposes. Such grants shall be 
administered in accordance with the requirements applicable to grants 
under section 50302 of title 46, United States Code. The deadlines 
established in paragraph (5) of subsection (c) of section 50302 of such 
title shall not apply to amounts made available in this section, and 
the Secretary of Transportation may carry out multiple rounds of 
competition. The Maritime Administration shall return to the Treasury 
any funds appropriated under this section that have not been expended 
by September 30, 2031.

SEC. 110027. GRANTS FOR RURAL, SMALL, TRIBAL, AND ECONOMICALLY 
              DISADVANTAGED MUNICIPALITY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND 
              CIRCUIT RIDER PROGRAMS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Environmental Protection Agency for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$495,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency--
            (1) to provide technical assistance to rural, small, 
        Tribal, and economically disadvantaged municipalities for the 
        purposes identified in subsection (b)(8) of section 104 of the 
        Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1254); and
            (2) for grants for manpower development and training and 
        retraining of workforce employees of publicly owned treatment 
        works in accordance with subsection (g) of such section.
    (b) Determination of Economic Disadvantage.--In determining whether 
a municipality is economically disadvantaged for the purposes of this 
section, the Administrator shall, to the maximum extent practicable, 
take into consideration--
            (1) the criteria under paragraph (1) or (2) of section 
        301(a) of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 
        (42 U.S.C. 3161); and
            (2) any affordability criteria established by the State in 
        which the municipality is located pursuant to section 603(i)(2) 
        or 221(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
        1383(i)(2); 1301(c)).

SEC. 110028. ALTERNATIVE WATER SOURCE PROJECT GRANTS.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Environmental Protection Agency for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$125,000,000, to remain available until expended, for carrying out 
section 220 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
1300), in accordance with subsection (b), which funds may be used to 
make grants under such section on the condition that--
            (1) a project carried out using such funds shall, to the 
        maximum extent practicable, maximize the avoidance, 
        minimization, or mitigation of climate change impacts on, and 
        of, any constructed part of the project (including through the 
        implementation of technologies to recover and reuse energy 
        produced in the treatment of wastewater); and
            (2) all of the iron and steel used in the project are 
        produced in the United States in accordance with section 608 of 
        such Act (33 U.S.C. 1388).
    (b) Limitations.--For purposes of subsection (a)--
            (1) the limitation in section 220(d)(1) of the Federal 
        Water Pollution Control Act (as in effect on September 1, 
        2021), as it applies to the receipt of planning or design 
        funds, shall not apply with respect to eligibility for a grant 
        under this section; and
            (2) the requirements of sections 220(d)(2) and (e) of such 
        Act (as in effect on September 1, 2021) shall not apply to the 
        making of a grant under this section.

SEC. 110029. SEWER OVERFLOW AND STORMWATER REUSE MUNICIPAL GRANTS.

    (a) General Assistance.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Environmental Protection Agency 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $1,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
carrying out section 221 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
U.S.C. 1301), which funds may be used to make grants under such section 
on the condition that any activity carried out using such funds shall, 
to the maximum extent practicable, maximize the avoidance, 
minimization, or mitigation of climate change impacts on, and of, any 
constructed part of the activity (including through the implementation 
of technologies to recover and reuse energy produced in the treatment 
of wastewater).
    (b) Financially Distressed Communities.--
            (1) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Environmental 
        Protection Agency for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
        Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000,000, to remain 
        available until expended, for carrying out section 221 of the 
        Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1301), which 
        funds may be used to make grants under such section to 
        financially distressed communities (as defined in such 
        section), including rural financially distressed communities, 
        on the condition that any activity carried out using such funds 
        shall, to the maximum extent practicable, maximize the 
        avoidance, minimization, or mitigation of climate change 
        impacts on, and of, any constructed part of the activity 
        (including through the implementation of technologies to 
        recover and reuse energy produced in the treatment of 
        wastewater).
            (2) Limitation.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may not 
        require a financially distressed community receiving a grant 
        pursuant to this subsection to provide, as a condition of 
        eligibility to receive such grant, a share of the cost of the 
        activity for which the grant was made.

SEC. 110030. INDIVIDUAL HOUSEHOLD DECENTRALIZED WASTEWATER TREATMENT 
              SYSTEM GRANTS.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Environmental Protection Agency for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$450,000,000, to remain available until expended, to make grants, in 
accordance with subsection (b), to States, municipalities, and 
nonprofit entities under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act for 
the construction, repair, or replacement of individual household 
decentralized wastewater treatment systems of eligible individuals (as 
such term is defined in section 603(j) of the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1383(j)).
    (b) Priority.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Administrator of 
the Environmental Protection Agency shall prioritize the issuance of 
grants to assist eligible individuals (as such term is defined in 
section 603(j) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
1383(j)) residing in households that are not connected to a system or 
technology designed to treat domestic sewage, including eligible 
individuals using household cesspools.

SEC. 110031. TRIBAL CLEAN WATER GRANTS.

    (a) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Environmental Protection Agency for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$500,000,000, to remain available until expended, to make grants, in 
accordance with subsection (b), to Indian tribes and other entities 
described in section 518(c)(3) of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act (33 U.S.C. 1377)--
            (1) for--
                    (A) projects and activities eligible for assistance 
                under section 603(c) of such Act (33 U.S.C. 1383); and
                    (B) training, technical assistance, and educational 
                programs related to the operation and management of 
                treatment works eligible for assistance pursuant to 
                such section 603(c); and
            (2) subject to the condition that--
                    (A) any project or activity carried out using such 
                funds shall, to the maximum extent practicable, 
                maximize the avoidance, minimization, or mitigation of 
                climate change impacts on, and of, any constructed part 
                of the project or activity (including through the 
                implementation of technologies to recover and reuse 
                energy produced in the treatment of wastewater); and
                    (B) all of the iron and steel used in any project 
                carried out using such funds are produced in the United 
                States in accordance with section 608 of such Act (33 
                U.S.C. 1388).
    (b) Limitation.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency may not require an Indian tribe 
or other entity receiving a grant under this section to provide, as a 
condition of eligibility to receive such grant, a share of the cost of 
the project or activity for which the grant was made.

SEC. 110032. WASTEWATER INFRASTRUCTURE ASSISTANCE TO COLONIAS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Environmental Protection Agency for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $125,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, for the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency for carrying out section 307 of the 
Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996 (33 U.S.C. 1281 note; 110 
Stat. 1688), which funds may be used to award grants under such section 
to a border State or municipality with jurisdiction over an eligible 
community (as such terms are defined in such section), on the condition 
that--
            (1) a project carried out using such funds shall, to the 
        maximum extent practicable, maximize the avoidance, 
        minimization, or mitigation of climate change impacts on, and 
        of, any constructed part of the project (including through the 
        implementation of technologies to recover and reuse energy 
        produced in the treatment of wastewater);
            (2) all of the iron and steel used in the project are 
        produced in the United States in accordance with section 608 of 
        the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1388); and
            (3) an eligible community receiving assistance for such 
        project pursuant to this section shall not be required to 
        provide a share of the costs of carrying out the project.

SEC. 110033. CLEAN WATER NEEDS SURVEY.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Environmental Protection Agency for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants to States and municipalities to 
carry out a detailed estimate of the cost of construction of all needed 
publicly owned treatment works pursuant to section 516(b)(1)(B) of the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1375(b)(1)(B)).

SEC. 110034. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS.

    The Comptroller General of the United States shall provide a report 
to Congress accounting for any equipment provided by the United States 
Coast Guard or the Army Corps of Engineers to any prior regime in 
Afghanistan and that has been left behind in Afghanistan.

SEC. 110035. POLICY OF THE UNITED STATES ON CHILD LABOR.

    It is the policy of the United States that funds made available by 
this title should not be used to purchase products produced whole or in 
part through the use of child labor, as such term is defined in Article 
3 of the International Labor Organization Convention concerning the 
prohibition and immediate action for the elimination of the worst forms 
of child labor (December 2, 2000), or in violation of human rights.
