---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Title VIII - Committee On Oversight And Reform

SEC. 80001. GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION CLEAN VEHICLE FLEET.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the General Services Administration for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, for the procurement of electric 
vehicles and related infrastructure for the Federal fleet (excluding 
any vehicles of the United States Postal Service and including non-
tactical vehicles of the Department of Defense), and the management, 
acquisition, and allocation of such electric vehicles and 
infrastructure and working with Federal agencies to allocate and lease 
resources as necessary.

SEC. 80002. GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR 
              GENERAL CLEAN VEHICLE FLEET OVERSIGHT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Office of the Inspector General of the General Services 
Administration for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $2,500,000, to remain available until 
expended, for oversight of the procurement of electric vehicles and 
related infrastructure for the Federal fleet at the General Services 
Administration.

SEC. 80003. UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE; CLEAN VEHICLE FLEET AND 
              FACILITY MAINTENANCE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the United States Postal Service for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $7,000,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, to be deposited into the Postal 
Service Fund established under section 2003 of title 39, United States 
Code, to acquire electric vehicles for the Postal Service fleet, of 
which $3,000,000,000 shall be for the purchase of electric delivery 
vehicles and $4,000,000,000 shall be for the purchase of the related 
infrastructure to support such vehicles.

SEC. 80004. UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR 
              GENERAL CLEAN VEHICLE FLEET PROCUREMENT OVERSIGHT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Office of the Inspector General of the United States Postal 
Service for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $23,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, to be deposited into the Postal Service Fund established 
under section 2003 of title 39, United States Code, to perform 
oversight of the United States Postal Service's acquisition and 
deployment of electric vehicles and such infrastructure as may be 
required to support such vehicles.

SEC. 80005. NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the National Archives and Records Administration for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$60,000,000 to remain available until expended to address backlogs in 
responding to requests from veterans for military personnel records, 
improve cyber security, improve digital preservation and access to 
archival Federal records, and address backlogs in requests made under 
section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly referred to as the 
Freedom of Information Act). Such amounts may also be used for the 
Federal Records Center Program.

SEC. 80006. FUNDING FOR GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $25,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the 
Comptroller General to conduct oversight of the receipt, disbursement, 
and use of funds and exercise of authorities provided by this Act, 
including oversight of the equitable distribution and use of funds and 
their economic, social, and environmental impacts, and to prepare such 
reports that the Comptroller General determines appropriate.

SEC. 80007. FUNDING FOR THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET FOR 
              IMPLEMENTATION OF JUSTICE40.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Office of Management and Budget for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $4,000,000 to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, for additional personnel and data 
management expenses to support implementation of the Justice40 
Initiative set forth in section 223 of Executive Order No. 14008, 
``Executive Order on Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad'' 
(January 27, 2021), including providing assistance to other agencies in 
the development and implementation of methodologies to measure 
benefits, the development of a database to track agency benefits to 
disadvantaged communities, and a public-facing scorecard detailing 
agency environmental justice performance measures.

SEC. 80008. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CLEAN VEHICLE FLEET.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the District of Columbia for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for the procurement of electric vehicles and 
related infrastructure for the District of Columbia and the management 
and acquisition of such electric vehicles and infrastructure.

SEC. 80009. FUNDING FOR TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZATION FUND.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Technology Modernization Fund for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2031.

SEC. 80010. FUNDING FOR GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL CITIZEN 
              SERVICES FUND.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the General Services Administration for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,000,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2031, to be deposited in the 
Federal Citizen Services Fund.

SEC. 80011. FUNDING FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OVERSIGHT AND REFORM 
              (ITOR) ACCOUNT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Office of Management and Budget's Information Technology 
Oversight and Reform (ITOR) account within the Executive Office of the 
President for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $350,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2031.
