---
sidebar_position: 11
---

# Title IX - Committee On Science, Space, And Technology

## SEC. 90001. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE REGIONAL INNOVATION.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of Commerce for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be 
expended after September 30, 2031, for planning and establishment of 
regional innovation initiatives pursuant to the Stevenson-Wydler Act, 
and for related administrative expenses. Of the funds provided by this 
section for regional innovation initiatives, no fewer than one-third of 
grants or cooperative agreements awarded shall significantly benefit a 
State that is eligible to receive funding from the Established Program 
to Stimulate Competitive Research of the National Science Foundation or 
a rural or other underserved community.

SEC. 90002. FUNDING FOR DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY LABORATORY INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Office of Science Appropriation.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Department of Energy 
Office of Science for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $10,391,804,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, to carry out laboratory 
infrastructure projects, including--
            (1) $7,780,566,000 for Construction Projects, of which--
                    (A) $220,000,000 shall be used for the Exascale 
                Computing Project;
                    (B) $493,600,000 shall be used for the Frontier 
                Exascale Computing System;
                    (C) $427,400,000 shall be used for the Aurora 
                Exascale Computing System;
                    (D) $155,400,000 shall be used for upgrades to the 
                National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center;
                    (E) $38,616,000 shall be used for the Energy 
                Sciences Network;
                    (F) $157,000,000 shall be used for the Advanced 
                Photon Source Upgrade;
                    (G) $729,800,000 shall be used for the Spallation 
                Neutron Source Proton Power Upgrade and Second Target 
                Station;
                    (H) $337,600,000 shall be used for the Advanced 
                Light Source Upgrade;
                    (I) $472,850,000 shall be used for the Linac 
                Coherent Light Source-II, including the High Energy 
                Upgrade;
                    (J) $86,000,000 shall be used for the Cryomodule 
                Repair and Maintenance Facility;
                    (K) $25,000,000 shall be used for the High Flux 
                Isotope Reactor Pressure Vessel Replacement;
                    (L) $1,325,000,000 shall be used for United States 
                contributions to the ITER project as authorized in 
                section 972(c) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
                U.S.C. 16312(c));
                    (M) $212,300,000 shall be used for the Matter in 
                Extreme Conditions Upgrade;
                    (N) $581,000,000 shall be used for the Proton 
                Improvement Plan-II project;
                    (O) $1,300,000,000 shall be used for the Long 
                Baseline Neutrino Facility/Deep Underground Neutrino 
                Experiment;
                    (P) $13,000,000 shall be used for the Muon to 
                Electron Conversion Experiment;
                    (Q) $806,000,000 shall be used for the Electron Ion 
                Collider;
                    (R) $213,000,000 shall be used for the Oak Ridge 
                National Laboratory Radioisotope Processing Facility; 
                and
                    (S) $187,000,000 shall be used for the United 
                States Stable Isotope Production and Research Center;
            (2) $1,470,238,000 for Major Items of Equipment, of which--
                    (A) $302,000,000 shall be used for the High 
                Performance Data Facility;
                    (B) $90,000,000 shall be used for the Nanoscale 
                Science Research Center Recapitalization project;
                    (C) $83,500,000 shall be used for the National 
                Synchrotron Light Source-II Experimental Tools II 
                project;
                    (D) $59,200,000 shall be used for the Material 
                Plasma Exposure Experiment;
                    (E) $567,875,000 shall be used for such projects 
                for the High Energy Physics program, including--
                            (i) $237,000,000 for the Cosmic Microwave 
                        Background-Stage 4 experiment; and
                            (ii) $223,875,000 for upgrades to the Large 
                        Hadron Collider; and
                    (F) $367,663,000 shall be used for such projects 
                for the Nuclear Physics program, including $212,500,000 
                for the Ton-Scale Neutrinoless Double Beta Decay 
                experiment; and
            (3) $1,141,000,000 for Science Laboratories Infrastructure, 
        of which--
                    (A) $111,500,000 shall be used for such projects at 
                the Oak Ridge National Laboratory;
                    (B) $115,000,000 shall be used for such projects at 
                the Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility;
                    (C) $150,400,000 shall be used for such projects at 
                the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory;
                    (D) $29,850,000 shall be used for such projects at 
                the Ames Laboratory;
                    (E) $90,000,000 shall be used for such projects at 
                the Brookhaven National Laboratory;
                    (F) $265,000,000 shall be used for such projects at 
                the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;
                    (G) $152,000,000 shall be used for such projects at 
                the SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory;
                    (H) $100,000,000 shall be used for such projects at 
                the Argonne National Laboratory; and
                    (I) $127,250,000 shall be used for such projects at 
                the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory.
    (b) Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Appropriation.--In 
addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the 
Department of Energy Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $349,200,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2026, to carry out laboratory infrastructure projects, of which--
            (1) $163,000,000 shall be used for the Energy Materials and 
        Processing at Scale project;
            (2) $96,200,000 shall be used for the Advanced Research in 
        Integrated Energy Systems initiative; and
            (3) $90,000,000 shall be used for high-performance 
        computing equipment and infrastructure.
    (c) Nuclear Energy Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Department of Energy Office of 
Nuclear Energy for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $408,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, to carry out laboratory infrastructure projects, of 
which--
            (1) $66,000,000 shall be used for the Sample Preparation 
        Laboratory;
            (2) $125,000,000 shall be used for the Advanced Test 
        Reactor and Materials and Fuel Complex Plant Health projects;
            (3) $122,000,000 shall be used for the Advanced Test 
        Reactor Recapitalization project; and
            (4) $95,000,000 shall be used for the Versatile Test 
        Reactor as authorized in section 955 of the Energy Policy Act 
        of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16275).
    (d) Fossil Energy and Carbon Management Appropriation.--In addition 
to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Department 
of Energy Office of Fossil Energy and Carbon Management for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$20,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to carry out 
activities to support high-performance computing equipment and 
infrastructure.
    (e) General Laboratory Infrastructure.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,080,996,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2026, to carry out activities 
to support infrastructure at Department of Energy National Laboratories 
for civilian research and development purposes, including General Plant 
Projects and General Plant Equipment, of which--
            (1) not less than $377,301,000 shall be available to the 
        Office of Science;
            (2) not less than $209,800,000 shall be available to the 
        Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy;
            (3) not less than $40,000,000 shall be available to the 
        Office of Nuclear Energy;
            (4) not less than $190,000,000 shall be available to the 
        Office of Fossil Energy and Carbon Management; and
            (5) not less than $102,200,000 shall be available to the 
        Office of Environmental Management.

SEC. 90003. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND 
              DEMONSTRATION ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Office of Science Appropriations.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Office of Science of 
the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,000,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, to carry out research and 
development activities. Of the funds provided by this section:
            (1) Computational science graduate fellowship.--
        $116,000,000 shall be used to carry out the Department of 
        Energy Computational Science Graduate Fellowship program.
            (2) Quantum user expansion for science and technology.--
        $340,000,000 shall be used to carry out activities to 
        facilitate access of researchers to United States quantum 
        computing facilities for research purposes as part of the 
        program authorized in title IV of the National Quantum 
        Initiative Act (15 U.S.C. 8851 et seq.).
            (3) Low-dose radiation research.--$180,000,000 shall be 
        used to carry out the activities of the low-dose radiation 
        research program authorized in section 306(c) of the Department 
        of Energy Research and Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 18644(c)).
            (4) Fusion materials research and development.--
        $250,000,000 shall be used to carry out the activities of the 
        fusion materials research and development program authorized in 
        section 307(b) of the Department of Energy Research and 
        Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 18645(b)).
            (5) Inertial fusion research and development.--$140,000,000 
        shall be used to carry out the activities of the program of 
        research and technology development in inertial fusion for 
        energy applications authorized in section 307(d) of the 
        Department of Energy Research and Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 
        18645(d)).
            (6) Alternative and enabling fusion energy concepts.--
        $275,000,000 shall be used to carry out the activities of the 
        alternative and enabling fusion energy concepts program 
        authorized in section 307(e) of the Department of Energy 
        Research and Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 18645(e)).
            (7) Milestone-based fusion energy development program.--
        $325,000,000 shall be used to carry out the activities of the 
        milestone-based fusion energy development program authorized in 
        section 307(i) of the Department of Energy Research and 
        Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 18645(i)).
            (8) Fusion reactor system design.--$250,000,000 shall be 
        used to carry out the fusion reactor system design activities 
        authorized in section 307(j) of the Department of Energy 
        Research and Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 18645(j)).
    (b) Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Appropriation.--
            (1) Demonstration projects.--In addition to amounts 
        otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Department of 
        Energy Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy for 
        fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, $1,107,500,000, to remain available 
        until September 30, 2026, to carry out demonstration projects, 
        including demonstration of advanced--
                    (A) wind energy technologies as authorized in 
                section 3003 of the Energy Act of 2020 (42 U.S.C. 
                16237);
                    (B) solar energy technologies as authorized in 
                section 3004 of the Energy Act of 2020 (42 U.S.C. 
                16238), including technologies and processes to 
                encourage the domestic production of materials, 
                semiconductors, and other components at all stages of 
                the solar supply chain;
                    (C) geothermal technologies as authorized in 
                section 615 of the Energy Independence and Security Act 
                of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17194);
                    (D) water power technologies as authorized in 
                sections 634 and 635 of the Energy Independence and 
                Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17213 et al.);
                    (E) vehicle technologies;
                    (F) bioenergy technologies, including biofuels; and
                    (G) building technologies.
            (2) Clean energy manufacturing innovation institute.--In 
        addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
        to the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy for 
        fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, $70,000,000, to remain available until 
        September 30, 2026, to carry out activities to support one new 
        Clean Energy Manufacturing Innovation Institute.
    (c) Nuclear Energy Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Department of Energy Office of 
Nuclear Energy for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $52,500,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, to carry out the activities of the research reactor 
infrastructure program as authorized in section 954(a) of the Energy 
Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16274(a)).
    (d) Fossil Energy and Carbon Management Appropriation.--In addition 
to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Department 
of Energy Office of Fossil Energy and Carbon Management for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$10,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to carry out 
on-site demonstration projects on the reduction of environmental 
impacts of produced water.
    (e) Diversity Support.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Department of Energy Office of Economic 
Impact and Diversity for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $20,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be expended after 
September 30, 2031, to support programs across the Department's 
civilian research, development, demonstration, and commercial 
application activities.
    (f) Oversight.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2022, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts 
may be expended after September 30, 2031, for oversight by the 
Department of Energy Office of Inspector General of the Department of 
Energy activities for which funding is appropriated in this title.

SEC. 90004. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY CLIMATE CHANGE RESEARCH AND 
              DEVELOPMENT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the Environmental Protection Agency for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$264,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2026, to conduct 
environmental research and development activities related to climate 
change, including related administrative expenses. The amounts made 
available in this section shall be used for the purposes of--
            (1) conducting further research on mitigation of climate 
        forcing emissions, adaptation to reduce the impacts of climate 
        change, and approaches to build resilience to climate change;
            (2) providing increased support for evidence-based regional 
        and community climate adaptation and resilience actions, 
        including development of a grants-based regional climate 
        science network;
            (3) conducting further social science research to upgrade 
        the utilization and efficacy of scientific tools to mitigate, 
        adapt, and build resilience to the impacts of climate change;
            (4) increasing engagement capacity with frontline 
        communities with environmental justice concerns in translating, 
        utilizing, and evaluating scientific research results;
            (5) conducting further research to improve understanding of 
        impacts of decarbonized energy sources compared to existing 
        energy sources, including cumulative impacts of pollution from 
        existing sources;
            (6) conducting further research to improve understanding of 
        the impacts of the transition to decarbonized energy, 
        transportation, and building sectors on frontline communities;
            (7) conducting further research to improve understanding of 
        impacts of climate change, including cumulative impacts of 
        pollution exposure, in communities that face disproportionate 
        impacts from energy transitions; and
            (8) providing increased support to conduct further 
        environmental research and development activities on climate 
        change that the Administrator deems appropriate.

SEC. 90005. FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY ASSISTANCE TO 
              FIREFIGHTERS GRANTS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Federal Emergency Management Agency for Fiscal Year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, $798,000,000, for Assistance to 
Firefighters Grants pursuant to the Federal Fire Prevention and Control 
Act of 1974: Provided, That $718,000,000 of such amount shall be 
available for Assistance to Firefighters Grants for fire and EMS 
department facility construction, upgrades, and modifications, and for 
related administrative expenses: Provided further, That $80,000,000 of 
such amount shall be available for Assistance to Firefighters Grants 
for PFAS-free personal protective equipment and PFAS-free firefighting 
foam, and for related administrative expenses.

SEC. 90006. FIREFIGHTER GRANT OVERSIGHT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be 
expended after September 30, 2031, for oversight by the Department of 
Homeland Security Office of Inspector General of the activities for 
which funding is appropriated in section 90005.

SEC. 90007. NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION 
              INFRASTRUCTURE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there are 
appropriated to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $4,000,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2026, for repair, recapitalization, and modernization of physical 
infrastructure and facilities, including related administrative 
expenses, consistent with the responsibilities authorized under section 
31502 of title 51, United States Code, on maintenance of facilities and 
section 31503 of title 51, United States Code, on laboratory 
productivity.

SEC. 90008. NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION CLIMATE 
              CHANGE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there are 
appropriated to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $388,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2026, of which $85,000,000 shall be for research and development on 
subseasonal to seasonal models and observations, climate resilience and 
sustainability, and airborne instruments, campaigns, and surface 
networks to understand, observe, and mitigate global climate change and 
its impacts, including related administrative expenses, authorized 
under section 60501 of title 51, United States Code, and research and 
development activities on upper atmospheric research authorized under 
sections 20161, 20163, and 20164 of title 51, United States Code; 
$28,000,000 shall be for investments in data management and processing 
to support research, development, and applications to understand, 
observe, and mitigate the global climate change and its impacts 
consistent with the responsibilities authorized under section 60506 of 
title 51, United States Code; $50,000,000 shall be for research and 
development to support the wildfire community and improve wildfire 
fighting operations, including the Scalable Traffic Management for 
Emergency Response Operations project; and $225,000,000 shall be for 
advancing aeronautics research and development on sustainable aviation, 
including sustainable aviation biofuels, including related 
administrative expenses, consistent with the responsibilities 
authorized under sections 40701 and 40702 of title 51, United States 
Code.

SEC. 90009. NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION OVERSIGHT AND 
              CYBERSECURITY.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there are 
appropriated to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $7,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, 
except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for 
information technology security and cybersecurity activities for which 
funding is appropriated under sections 90007 and 90008. In addition to 
amounts otherwise made available, there are appropriated to the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration for fiscal year 2022, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may 
be expended after September 30, 2031, for the Office of Inspector 
General to provide oversight over the management of funds appropriated 
under sections 90007 and 90008.

SEC. 90010. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the National Institute of Standards and Technology for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$1,195,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except 
that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for 
scientific and technical research pursuant to the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology Act, for artificial intelligence (including AI 
safety and control), cybersecurity, quantum information science and 
technology, biotechnology, communications technologies, advanced 
manufacturing, resilience to natural hazards including wildfires, 
greenhouse gas and other climate-related measurement, and for related 
administrative expenses: Provided, That $150,000,000 shall be available 
for cybersecurity research and activities.

SEC. 90011. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY SUPPORTING 
              AMERICAN MANUFACTURING.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $2,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
of which--
            (1) $1,000,000,000 shall be for the Hollings Manufacturing 
        Extension Partnership as authorized by sections 25 and 26 of 
        the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 
        U.S.C. 278k; 278l), including related administrative expenses;
            (2) $850,000,000 shall be to provide funds, through 
        existing programs, for advanced manufacturing research, 
        development, and testbeds, including related administrative 
        expenses; and
            (3) $150,000,000 shall be for the creation of a new 
        Manufacturing USA Institute that is focused on semiconductor 
        manufacturing.
    (b) Limitation.--Amounts provided under subsection (a)(1) shall not 
be subject to cost share requirements under section 25(e)(2) of the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 
278k(e)(2)). The authority made available pursuant to this preceding 
sentence shall be elective for any Manufacturing Extension Partnership 
Center that also receives funding from a State that is conditioned upon 
the application of a Federal cost sharing requirement.

SEC. 90012. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH 
              FACILITIES.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the National Institute of Standards and Technology for fiscal year 
2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$1,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2031, except 
that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, for necessary 
expenses as authorized by sections 13 through 15 of the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278c-278e) for 
construction of new research facilities, including architectural and 
engineering design, and for renovation and maintenance of existing 
facilities.

SEC. 90013. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY OVERSIGHT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of Commerce for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may be 
expended after September 30, 2031, for oversight by the Department of 
Commerce Office of Inspector General of National Institute of Standards 
and Technology activities for which funding is appropriated in this 
title.

SEC. 90014. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION WEATHER, 
              OCEAN, AND CLIMATE RESEARCH AND FORECASTING.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $1,240,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2026, to carry out the provisions of the Weather Research and 
Forecasting Innovation Act (15 U.S.C. 8501 et seq.), the National 
Integrated Drought Information System Act (15 U.S.C. 313d), the 
National Climate Program Act (15 U.S.C. 2901-2908.), the Harmful Algal 
Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act (33 U.S.C. 4001-4010), the 
Federal Ocean Acidification Research and Monitoring Act (33 U.S.C. 
3701-3708), title III of the America COMPETES Act (33 U.S.C. 893, 893a, 
893b, and 893c), and the Weather Service Organic Act (15 U.S.C. 313 et 
seq.). The amounts in this section shall be used for the purposes of--
            (1) increasing the understanding, and predictive and 
        forecasting capabilities, of weather and climate phenomena 
        including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, drought, 
        wildland fires and associated fire weather, extreme 
        precipitation, extreme heat and extreme heat events, flooding, 
        and other severe weather, and their impacts;
            (2) increasing marine research capacity and the 
        understanding of the impacts of climate change on ocean 
        processes and phenomena including, but not limited to, ocean 
        acidification, harmful algal blooms, hypoxia and deoxygenation, 
        sea level change, and ocean warming;
            (3) enhancing weather, ocean, climate, and other 
        environmental observations, research, data, data assimilation, 
        and modeling;
            (4) facilitating successful transition of research into 
        operations and operations to research, including social science 
        for improved decision support services;
            (5) acquiring related high-performance computing, data 
        management, and storage assets; and
            (6) developing, leveraging, and employing new capabilities, 
        technologies and instruments, including dissemination and 
        processing.

SEC. 90015. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION CLIMATE 
              ADAPTATION AND RESILIENCE ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there 
is appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $765,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2026, to carry out the provisions of the National Climate Program Act 
(15 U.S.C. 2901-2908), the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation 
Act (15 U.S.C. 8501 et seq.), title III of the America COMPETES Act (33 
U.S.C. 893, 893a, 893b, and 893c), the National Integrated Drought 
Information System Act (15 U.S.C. 313d), the Weather Service Organic 
Act (15 U.S.C. 313 et seq.), the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia 
Research and Control Act (33 U.S.C. 4001-4010), and the Federal Ocean 
Acidification Research and Monitoring Act (33 U.S.C. 3701-3708) to 
develop and distribute actionable climate information for communities 
across all States, territories, and Tribal lands of the United States 
in an equitable manner, to build climate resilience and develop a 
climate-ready workforce.
    (b) Use of Funds.--The amounts made available in subsection (a) 
shall be used for the following activities:
            (1) $265,000,000 to better enable end users, as 
        appropriate, to assess the relative risk of, determine possible 
        adaptation and mitigation strategies for, and make executive 
        and budgetary decisions in response to climate impacts by--
                    (A) increasing end user understanding of the 
                impacts of climate change at the local and regional 
                level;
                    (B) developing actionable climate information and 
                accessible tools and products; and
                    (C) providing end users with technical assistance.
            (2) $500,000,000 to recruit, educate, and train a climate-
        ready workforce to--
                    (A) develop and support on-the-ground community-
                driven projects to enhance climate adaptation and 
                resilience;
                    (B) support community engagement and participation 
                in monitoring, tracking, and preparing for extreme 
                events;
                    (C) support local resilience to climate impacts;
                    (D) conduct community-driven climate science; and
                    (E) enhance the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration's delivery of climate information 
                services, tools, and products, including but not 
                limited to those developed in paragraph (1)(B).
    (c) End Users.--For the purposes of this section, the term ``end 
users'' shall include--
            (1) States;
            (2) territories;
            (3) Tribes;
            (4) local governments;
            (5) businesses;
            (6) not-for-profit or other organizations; and
            (7) individuals.
    (d) Extreme Event.--For the purposes of this section, the term 
``extreme event'' refers to a time and place in which weather, climate, 
or environmental conditions, such as temperature, precipitation, 
drought, or flooding, rank above a threshold value near the upper or 
lower ends of the range of historical measurements.

SEC. 90016. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION HIGH 
              PERFORMANCE COMPUTING.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $70,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2026, 
to procure and enhance high performance computing, data management, and 
storage capabilities, and related facilities to enable the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to meet its mission 
requirements, including related administrative expenses.

SEC. 90017. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION PHASED 
              ARRAY RADAR.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $224,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2026, to carry out the provisions of the Weather Research and 
Forecasting Innovation Act (15 U.S.C. 8501 et seq.) for research and 
development activities to advance the understanding of phased array 
radar as a potential future radar technology to improve weather 
forecasts.

SEC. 90018. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION HURRICANE 
              HUNTER AIRCRAFT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $1,024,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2026, to carry out the provisions of the Weather Research and 
Forecasting Innovation Act (15 U.S.C. 8501 et seq.) for the procurement 
of hurricane hunters and related expenses, and the development and 
acquisition of airborne phased array radar, to prepare for fleet 
readiness by fiscal year 2030.

SEC. 90019. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION UNCREWED 
              SYSTEMS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $12,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2026, 
to support uncrewed systems development and application in support of 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration mission priorities 
including oceanic and atmospheric research and research to operations, 
including related administrative expenses.

SEC. 90020. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION RESEARCH 
              INFRASTRUCTURE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $743,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2026, to conduct deferred maintenance of meteorological, hydrological, 
climatological, and other oceanic and atmospheric research and 
development or operational facilities, and to make improvements to 
scientific equipment and instruments, including related administrative 
expenses.

SEC. 90021. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION SPACE 
              WEATHER.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for 
fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $173,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2026, to carry out the provisions of the Promoting Research and 
Observations of Space Weather to Improve the Forecasting of Tomorrow 
(PROSWIFT) Act (51 U.S.C. 60601 et seq.) by accelerating the 
development and delivery of instruments and spacecraft, and 
prioritizing an independent launch for the Space Weather Next Lagrange 
point 1 mission, including related administrative expenses.

SEC. 90022. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION OVERSIGHT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Department of Commerce for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2026, for oversight by the Department of 
Commerce Office of Inspector General of National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration activities for which funding is appropriated 
in this title.

SEC. 90023. NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION INFRASTRUCTURE.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the National Science Foundation for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $3,430,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may 
be expended after September 30, 2031, for research-enabling equipment, 
facilities, and infrastructure, including mid-scale research 
infrastructure, Antarctic infrastructure modernization, related Federal 
administrative expenses and additional major research equipment and 
facilities construction projects approved by the National Science Board 
as required under section 14 of the National Science Foundation 
Authorization Act of 2002 (42 U.S.C. 1862n-4): Provided, That 
$1,000,000,000 shall be for activities authorized by title II of Public 
Law 100-570 for academic research facilities modernization, which may 
include shore-side facilities for academic research vessels, of which 
$300,000,000 shall be for academic research facilities modernization at 
historically Black colleges and universities, Hispanic serving 
institutions, Tribal colleges and universities, and other minority 
serving institutions: Provided further, That not less than 20 percent 
of the funds made available in this section shall be for research-
enabling equipment, facilities, and infrastructure projects located in 
a State or territory that is eligible to receive funding from the 
Established Program to Stimulate competitive Research as established 
under section 113 of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act 
of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1862g).: Provided further, That $25,000,000 shall be 
for the Office of the Chief of Research Security Strategy and Policy 
for research security activities.

SEC. 90024. NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the National Science Foundation for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $7,550,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2031, except that no amounts may 
be expended after September 30, 2031, to fund or extend new and 
existing research awards, scholarships, and fellowships across all 
science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) and STEM 
education disciplines, to fund use-inspired and translational research 
and development awards, entrepreneurial education, and technology 
transfer activities, to extend existing research awards and 
scholarships and fellowships to aid in the recovery from COVID-19 
related disruptions, and for related administrative expenses: Provided, 
That $400,000,000 shall be available for climate change research, 
including relating to wildfires: Provided further, That $700,000,000 
shall be available for research and related activities at historically 
Black colleges and universities, Tribal colleges and universities, 
Hispanic serving institutions, and other minority serving institutions.

SEC. 90025. NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION OVERSIGHT.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Office of Inspector General of the National Science Foundation 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $50,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, except that no amounts may be expended after September 30, 2031, 
for oversight, investigations, and audits of programs, grants, and 
projects carried out by the National Science Foundation using funds 
under this title.

SEC. 90026. WAGE RATE REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all 
laborers and mechanics employed by contractors and subcontractors on 
any project funded directly or assisted in whole or in part by the 
Federal Government pursuant to this title shall be paid wages at rates 
not less than those prevailing on projects of a similar character in 
the locality, as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance 
with subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, United States Code 
(commonly known as the ``Davis-Bacon Act'').
    (b) Authority.--With respect to the labor standards specified in 
paragraph (1), the Secretary of Labor shall have the authority and 
functions set forth in Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (64 
Stat. 1267; 5 U.S.C. App.) and section 3145 of title 40, United States 
Code.

SEC. 90027. FORCED LABOR PROHIBITION.

    None of the funds provided in this title may be used in awarding a 
contract, subcontract, grant, or loan to an entity that is listed 
pursuant to section 9(b)(3) of the Uyghur Human Rights Policy Act of 
2020 (Public Law 116-145).
