---
sidebar_position: 12
---

# Title XII - Committee On Veterans Affairs

## SEC. 12001. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $15,200,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2031, for facilities under the jurisdiction of, or for the use of, the 
Department of Veterans Affairs to carry out sections 2400, 2403, 2404, 
2406, 2407, 2412, 8101 through 8110, 8122, and 8161 through 8169 of 
title 38, United States Code, taking into consideration the integration 
of climate resiliency into infrastructure as well as the needs of 
underserved areas and underserved veteran populations.

SEC. 12002. MODIFICATIONS TO ENHANCED-USE LEASE AUTHORITY OF DEPARTMENT 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Modifications to Authority.--Paragraph (2) of section 8162(a) 
of title 38, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary may enter into an enhanced-use lease on or 
after the date of the enactment of this paragraph only if the Secretary 
determines--
            ``(i) that the lease will not be inconsistent with, and 
        will not adversely affect--
                    ``(I) the mission of the Department; or
                    ``(II) the operation of facilities, programs, and 
                services of the Department in the local area; and
            ``(ii) that--
                    ``(I) the lease will enhance the use of the leased 
                property by directly or indirectly benefitting 
                veterans; or
                    ``(II) the leased property will provide supportive 
                housing.
    ``(B) The Secretary shall give priority to enhanced-use leases 
that, on the leased property--
            ``(i) provide supportive housing for veterans;
            ``(ii) provide direct services or benefits targeted to 
        veterans; or
            ``(iii) provide services or benefits that indirectly 
        support veterans.''.
    (b) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $455,000,000 for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, to remain available until expended, to enter into 
enhanced-use leases pursuant to section 8162 of title 38, United States 
Code, as amended by this section.
    (c) Modification of Sunset.--Section 8169 of such title is amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2023'' and inserting ``September 30, 2026''.

SEC. 12003. MAJOR MEDICAL FACILITY LEASES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS.

    (a) Authority to Enter Into Major Medical Facility Leases.--
Paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of section 8104 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``No funds'' and inserting ``(A) No 
        funds'';
            (2) by striking ``or any major medical facility lease'';
            (3) by striking ``or lease''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) Funds may be appropriated for a fiscal year, and the 
Secretary may obligate and expend funds, including for advance planning 
and design, for any major medical facility lease.''.
    (b) Modification of Definition of Major Medical Facility Lease.--
Subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) of such subsection is amended to read 
as follows:
            ``(B) The term `major medical facility lease'--
                    ``(i) means a lease for space for use as a new 
                medical facility approved through the General Services 
                Administration under section 3307(a)(2) of title 40 at 
                an average annual rent equal to or greater than the 
                dollar threshold described in such section, which shall 
                be subject to annual adjustment in accordance with 
                section 3307(h) of such title; and
                    ``(ii) does not include a lease for space for use 
                as a shared Federal medical facility for which the 
                Department's estimated share of the lease costs does 
                not exceed such dollar threshold.''.
    (c) Interim Leasing Actions.--Such section is further amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i)(1) The Secretary may carry out interim leasing actions as the 
Secretary considers necessary for major medical facility leases (as 
defined in subsection (a)(3)(B)).
    ``(2) In this subsection, the term `interim leasing actions' has 
the meaning given that term by the Administrator of the General 
Services Administration.''.
    (d) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
with respect to a lease that has not been specifically authorized by 
law on or before the date of the enactment of this Act and is included 
as part of the annual budget submission of the President for fiscal 
year 2022, 2023, or 2024.
    (e) Purchase Options.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may 
obligate and expend funds to exercise a purchase option included in any 
major medical facility lease described in subsection (d).
    (f) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,805,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for major medical facility leases pursuant to 
subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 38, United States Code, as amended 
by this section, as requested in the annual budget submission of the 
President for fiscal year 2022, 2023, or 2024.
    (g) Termination and Restoration.--
            (1) In general.--Effective upon the date of execution of 
        the final lease award for leases described in subsection (d), 
        subsections (a) through (e) of this section and the amendments 
        made by those subsections are repealed and any provision of law 
        amended by those subsections is restored as if those 
        subsections had not been enacted into law.
            (2) Notification.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
        submit to Congress and the Law Revision Counsel of the House of 
        Representatives written notification of the date specified in 
        paragraph (1) not later than 30 days before such date.

SEC. 12004. INCREASE IN NUMBER OF HEALTH PROFESSIONS RESIDENCY 
              POSITIONS AT DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL 
              FACILITIES.

    (a) Increase.--In carrying out section 7302(a)(1) of title 38, 
United States Code, during the seven-year period beginning on the day 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall increase the number of health 
professions residency positions at medical facilities of the Department 
of Veterans Affairs by not more than 700 positions (which shall be 
allocated among occupations included in the most current determination 
published in the Federal Register pursuant to section 7412(a) of such 
title, or allocated pursuant to a prioritization by the Secretary of 
occupations in primary care, mental health care, and any other health 
professions occupation the Secretary determines appropriate) through 
the establishment of such new positions at--
            (1) medical facilities where the Secretary established such 
        positions pursuant to section 301(b)(2) of the Veterans Access, 
        Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-146; 38 
        U.S.C. 7302 note); or
            (2) any medical facility--
                    (A) the director of which expresses an interest in 
                establishing or expanding a health professions 
                residency program at the medical facility; or
                    (B) that is located in a community that has a high 
                concentration of veterans or is experiencing a shortage 
                of health care professionals.
    (b) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Department of Veterans Affairs for fiscal 
year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$375,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for the 
purpose of carrying out this section.

SEC. 12005. VETERAN RECORDS SCANNING.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Veterans Benefits Administration for fiscal year 2022, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $150,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2023, for costs of record scanning 
and claims processing, to carry out sections 7701 and 7703 of title 38, 
United States Code.

SEC. 12006. FUNDING FOR DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OFFICE OF 
              INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, $15,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2031, for audits, investigations, and other oversight of 
projects and activities carried out with funds made available to the 
Department of Veterans Affairs.
