---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Part 1 - Trade Adjustment Assistance For Workers

## SEC. 133101. FILING PETITIONS.

    Section 221(a)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2271(a)(1)) 
is amended--
            (1) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
            ``(A) One or more workers in the group of workers.''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``or a State 
        dislocated worker unit'' and inserting ``a State dislocated 
        worker unit, or workforce intermediaries, including labor-
        management organizations that carry out re-employment and 
        training services''.

SEC. 133102. GROUP ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 222(a)(2) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 
U.S.C. 2272(a)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by inserting ``, failed to 
                increase, or will decrease absolutely due to a 
                scheduled or imminently anticipated, long-term decrease 
                in or reallocation of the production capacity of the 
                firm'' after ``absolutely''; and
                    (B) in clause (iii)--
                            (i) by striking ``to the decline'' and 
                        inserting ``to any decline or absence of 
                        increase''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking the period at the 
        end and inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(C)(i) the sales or production, or both, of such firm 
        have decreased;
            ``(ii)(I) exports of articles produced or services supplied 
        by such workers' firm have decreased; or
            ``(II) imports of articles or services necessary for the 
        production of articles or services supplied by such firm have 
        decreased; and
            ``(iii) the decrease in exports or imports described in 
        clause (ii) contributed to such workers' separation or threat 
        of separation and to the decline in the sales or production of 
        such firm.''.
    (b) Repeal.--Section 222 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2272) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsections (a) and (b), by striking ``importantly'' 
        each place it appears; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (1); and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as 
                paragraphs (1) through (3), respectively.
    (c) Eligibility of Staffed Workers and Teleworkers.--Section 222 of 
the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2272), as amended by subsection (b), 
is further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Treatment of Staffed Workers and Teleworkers.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of subsection (a), workers 
        in a firm include staffed workers and teleworkers.
            ``(2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Staffed worker.--The term `staffed worker' 
                means a worker who performs work under the operational 
                control of a firm that is the subject of a petition 
                filed under section 221, even if the worker is directly 
                employed by another firm.
                    ``(B) Teleworker.--The term `teleworker' means a 
                worker who works remotely but who reports to the 
                location listed for a firm in a petition filed under 
                section 221.''.

SEC. 133103. APPLICATION OF DETERMINATIONS OF ELIGIBILITY TO WORKERS 
              EMPLOYED BY SUCCESSORS-IN-INTEREST.

    Section 223 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2273) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Treatment of Workers of Successors-in-Interest.--If the 
Secretary certifies a group of workers of a firm as eligible to apply 
for adjustment assistance under this chapter, a worker of a successor-
in-interest to that firm shall be covered by the certification to the 
same extent as a worker of that firm.''.

SEC. 133104. PROVISION OF BENEFIT INFORMATION TO WORKERS.

    Section 225 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2275) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting after the second 
        sentence the following new sentence: ``The Secretary shall make 
        every effort to provide such information and assistance to 
        workers in their native language.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
                (3);
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
    ``(2) The Secretary shall provide a second notice to a worker 
described in paragraph (1) before the worker has exhausted all rights 
to any unemployment insurance to which the worker is entitled (other 
than additional compensation described in section 231(a)(3)(B) funded 
by a State and not reimbursed from Federal funds).'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by paragraph 
                (1), by striking ``newspapers of general circulation'' 
                and inserting ``appropriate print or digital outlets''; 
                and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(4) For purposes of providing sustained outreach regarding the 
benefits available under this chapter to workers covered by a 
certification made under this subchapter, the Secretary may take any 
necessary actions, including the following:
            ``(A) Collecting the email addresses and telephone numbers 
        of such workers from the employers of such workers to provide 
        sustained outreach to such workers.
            ``(B) Partnering with the certified or recognized union, a 
        community-based worker organization, or other duly authorized 
        representatives of such workers.
            ``(C) Hiring peer support workers to perform sustained 
        outreach to other workers covered by that certification.
            ``(D) Using advertising methods and public information 
        campaigns, including social media, in addition to notice 
        published in print or digital outlets under paragraph (3).''.

SEC. 133105. QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR WORKERS.

    (a) Modification of Conditions.--
            (1) In general.--Section 231(a) of the Trade Act of 1974 
        (19 U.S.C. 2291(a)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (2);
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) 
                as paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), respectively; and
                    (C) in paragraph (4) (as redesignated), by striking 
                ``paragraphs (1) and (2)'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``paragraph (1)''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--(A) Section 232 of the Trade 
        Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2292) is amended by striking ``section 
        231(a)(3)(B)'' each place it appears and inserting ``section 
        231(a)(2)(B)''.
            (B) Section 233(a) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
        2293(a)) is amended--
                    (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``section 
                231(a)(3)(A)'' and inserting ``section 231(a)(2)(A)''; 
                and
                    (ii) in paragraph (2)--
                            (I) by striking ``adversely affected 
                        employment'' and all that follows through ``(A) 
                        within'' and inserting ``adversely affected 
                        employment within'';
                            (II) by striking ``, and'' and inserting a 
                        period; and
                            (III) by striking subparagraph (B).
    (b) Waivers of Training Requirements.--Section 231(c)(1) of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2291(c)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as 
        subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting before subparagraph (C) (as redesignated) 
        the following:
                    ``(A) Recall.--The worker has been notified that 
                the worker will be recalled by the firm from which the 
                separation occurred.
                    ``(B) Retirement.--The worker is within 2 years of 
                meeting all requirements for entitlement to either--
                            ``(i) old-age insurance benefits under 
                        title II of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
                        401 et seq.) (except for application therefor); 
                        or
                            ``(ii) a private pension sponsored by an 
                        employer or labor organization.''.

SEC. 133106. MODIFICATION TO TRADE READJUSTMENT ALLOWANCES.

    Section 233 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2293) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by inserting after ``104-week 
                period'' the following: ``(or, in the case of an 
                adversely affected worker who requires a program of 
                prerequisite education or remedial education (as 
                described in section 236(a)(5)(D)) in order to complete 
                training approved for the worker under section 236, the 
                130-week period)'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``65 additional 
                weeks in the 78-week period'' and inserting ``78 
                additional weeks in the 91-week period''; and
                    (C) in the flush text, by striking ``78-week 
                period'' and inserting ``91-week period'';
            (2) by striking subsection (d); and
            (3) by amending subsection (f) to read as follows:
    ``(f) Payment of Trade Readjustment Allowances to Complete 
Training.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in 
order to assist an adversely affected worker to complete training 
approved for the worker under section 236 that includes a program of 
prerequisite education or remedial education (as described in section 
236(a)(5)(D)), and in accordance with regulations prescribed by the 
Secretary, payments may be made as trade readjustment allowances for up 
to 26 additional weeks in the 26-week period that follows the last week 
of entitlement to trade readjustment allowances otherwise payable under 
this chapter.''.

SEC. 133107. AUTOMATIC EXTENSION OF TRADE READJUSTMENT ALLOWANCES.

    (a) In General.--Part I of subchapter B of chapter 2 of title II of 
the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2291 et seq.) is amended by inserting 
after section 233 the following new section:

``SEC. 233A. AUTOMATIC EXTENSION OF TRADE READJUSTMENT ALLOWANCES.

    ``(a) In General.--Notwithstanding the limitations under section 
233(a), the Secretary shall extend the period during which trade 
readjustment allowances are payable to an adversely affected worker who 
completes training approved under section 236 by the Secretary during a 
period of heightened unemployment with respect to the State in which 
such worker seeks benefits, for the shorter of--
            ``(1) the 26-week period beginning on the date of 
        completion of such training; or
            ``(2) the period ending on the date on which the adversely 
        affected worker secures employment.
    ``(b) Job Search Required.--A worker shall only be eligible for an 
extension under subsection (a) if the worker is complying with the job 
search requirements associated with unemployment insurance in the 
applicable State.
    ``(c) Period of Heightened Unemployment Defined.--In this section, 
the term `period of heightened unemployment' with respect to a State 
means a 90-day period during which, in the determination of the 
Secretary, either of the following average rates equals or exceeds 5.5 
percent:
            ``(1) The average rate of total unemployment in such State 
        (seasonally adjusted) for the period consisting of the most 
        recent 3-month period for which data for all States are 
        published before the close of such period.
            ``(2) The average rate of total unemployment in all States 
        (seasonally adjusted) for the period consisting of the most 
        recent 3-month period for which data for all States are 
        published before the close of such period.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Trade Act of 
1974 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 233 the 
following:

``Sec. 233A. Automatic extension of trade readjustment allowances.''.

SEC. 133108. EMPLOYMENT AND CASE MANAGEMENT SERVICES.

     Section 235 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2295) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by inserting after ``regional areas'' the 
                following: ``(including information about registered 
                apprenticeship programs, on-the-job training 
                opportunities, and other work-based learning 
                opportunities)''; and
                    (B) by inserting after ``suitable training'' the 
                following: ``, information regarding the track record 
                of a training provider's ability to successfully place 
                participants into suitable employment'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (10); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following:
            ``(8) Information related to direct job placement, 
        including facilitating the extent to which employers within the 
        community commit to employing workers who would benefit from 
        the employment and case management services under this section.
            ``(9) Sustained outreach to groups of workers likely to be 
        certified as eligible for adjustment assistance under this 
        chapter and members of certified worker groups who have not yet 
        applied for or been enrolled in benefits or services under this 
        chapter, especially such groups and members from underserved 
        communities.''.

SEC. 133109. TRAINING.

    Section 236 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2296(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(D), by inserting ``, with a 
                demonstrated ability to place participants into 
                employment'' before the comma at the end;
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end before 
                the period the following: ``, except that every effort 
                shall be made to ensure that employment opportunities 
                are available upon the completion of training''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (5)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (G), by striking ``, 
                        and'' and inserting a comma;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (H)(ii), by striking 
                        the period at the end and inserting ``, and''; 
                        and
                            (iii) by adding at the end before the flush 
                        text the following:
            ``(I) pre-apprenticeship training.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Reimbursement for Out-of-pocket Training Expenses.--If the 
Secretary approves training for a worker under paragraph (1) of 
subsection (a), the Secretary may reimburse the worker for out-of-
pocket expenses relating to training program described in paragraph (5) 
of that subsection that were incurred by the worker on and after the 
date of the worker's total or partial separation and before the date on 
which the certification of eligibility under section 222 that covers 
the worker is issued.''.

SEC. 133110. JOB SEARCH, RELOCATION, AND CHILD CARE ALLOWANCES.

    (a) Job Search Allowances.--Section 237 of the Trade Act of 1974 
(19 U.S.C. 2297) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``may use funds made 
        available to the State to carry out sections 235 through 238'' 
        and inserting ``shall use, from funds made available to the 
        State to carry out sections 235 through 238A, such amounts as 
        may be necessary'';
            (2) in subsection (a)(2), in the matter preceding 
        subparagraph (A), by striking ``may grant'' and inserting 
        ``shall grant''; and
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``not more than 
                90 percent'' and inserting ``100 percent'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``$1,250'' and 
                inserting ``$2,000 (subject to adjustment under 
                paragraph (4))''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following;
            ``(4) Adjustment of maximum allowance limitation for 
        inflation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of Labor shall 
                adjust the maximum allowance limitation under paragraph 
                (2) on the date that is 30 days after the date of the 
                enactment of this paragraph, and at the beginning of 
                each fiscal year thereafter, to reflect the percentage 
                (if any) of the increase in the average of the Consumer 
                Price Index for the preceding 12-month period compared 
                to the Consumer Price Index for fiscal year 2020.
                    ``(B) Special rules for calculation of 
                adjustment.--In making an adjustment under subparagraph 
                (A), the Secretary--
                            ``(i) shall round the amount of any 
                        increase in the Consumer Price Index to the 
                        nearest dollar; and
                            ``(ii) may ignore any such increase of less 
                        than 1 percent.
                    ``(C) Consumer price index defined.--For purposes 
                of this paragraph, the term `Consumer Price Index' 
                means the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers 
                published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the 
                Department of Labor.''.
    (b) Relocation Allowances.--Section 238 of the Trade Act of 1974 
(19 U.S.C. 2298) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``may use funds made 
        available to the State to carry out sections 235 through 238'' 
        and inserting ``shall use, from funds made available to the 
        State to carry out sections 235 through 238A, such amounts as 
        may be necessary'';
            (2) in subsection (a)(2), in the matter preceding 
        subparagraph (A), by striking ``may be granted'' and inserting 
        ``shall be granted'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``not more than 
                90 percent'' and inserting ``100 percent''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``$1,250'' and 
                inserting ``$2,000 (subject to adjustment under 
                subsection (d))''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Adjustment of Maximum Payment Limitation for Inflation.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Labor shall adjust the 
        maximum payment limitation under subsection (b)(2) on the date 
        that is 30 days after the date of the enactment of this 
        subsection, and at the beginning of each fiscal year 
        thereafter, to reflect the percentage (if any) of the increase 
        in the average of the Consumer Price Index for the preceding 
        12-month period compared to the Consumer Price Index for fiscal 
        year 2020.
            ``(2) Special rules for calculation of adjustment.--In 
        making an adjustment under paragraph (1), the Secretary--
                    ``(A) shall round the amount of any increase in the 
                Consumer Price Index to the nearest dollar; and
                    ``(B) may ignore any such increase of less than 1 
                percent.
            ``(3) Consumer price index defined.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `Consumer Price Index' means the Consumer 
        Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of 
        Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor.''.
    (c) Child Care Allowances.--
            (1) In general.--Part II of subchapter B of chapter 2 of 
        title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2295 et seq.) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 238A. CHILD CARE ALLOWANCES.

    ``(a) Child Care Allowances Authorized.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each State shall use, from funds made 
        available to the State to carry out sections 235 through 238A, 
        such amounts as may be necessary to allow an adversely affected 
        worker covered by a certification issued under subchapter A of 
        this chapter to file an application for a child care allowance 
        with the Secretary, and the Secretary may grant the child care 
        allowance, subject to the terms and conditions of this section.
            ``(2) Conditions for granting allowance.--A child care 
        allowance shall be granted if the allowance will assist an 
        adversely affected worker to attend training or seek suitable 
        employment, by providing for the care of one or more of the 
        minor dependents of the worker.
    ``(b) Amount of Allowance.--Any child care allowance granted to a 
worker under subsection (a) shall not exceed $2,000 per minor dependent 
per year.
    ``(c) Adjustment of Maximum Allowance Limitation for Inflation.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Labor shall adjust the 
        maximum allowance limitation under subsection (b) on the date 
        that is 30 days after the date of the enactment of this 
        subsection, and at the beginning of each fiscal year 
        thereafter, to reflect the percentage (if any) of the increase 
        in the average of the Consumer Price Index for the preceding 
        12-month period compared to the Consumer Price Index for fiscal 
        year 2020.
            ``(2) Special rules for calculation of adjustment.--In 
        making an adjustment under paragraph (1), the Secretary--
                    ``(A) shall round the amount of any increase in the 
                Consumer Price Index to the nearest dollar; and
                    ``(B) may ignore any such increase of less than 1 
                percent.
            ``(3) Consumer price index defined.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `Consumer Price Index' means the Consumer 
        Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of 
        Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Limitations on administrative expenses and 
                employment and case management services.--Section 235A 
                of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2295a) is amended 
                in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking 
                ``through 238'' and inserting ``through 238A''.
                    (B) Training.--Section 236(a)(2) of the Trade Act 
                of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2296(a)(2)) is amended--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and 
                        238'' and inserting ``238, and 238A'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and 
                        238'' each place it appears and inserting 
                        ``238, and 238A'';
                            (iii) in subparagraph (C)(i), by striking 
                        ``and 238'' and inserting ``238, and 238A'';
                            (iv) in subparagraph (C)(v), by striking 
                        ``and 238'' and inserting ``238, and 238A''; 
                        and
                            (v) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and 
                        238'' each place it appears and inserting 
                        ``238, and 238A''.
            (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for the 
        Trade Act of 1974 is amended by adding after the item relating 
        to section 238 the following new item:

``Sec. 238A. Child care allowances.''.

SEC. 133111. AGREEMENTS WITH STATES.

    (a) Coordination.--Section 239(f) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 
U.S.C. 2311(f)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(f) Any agreement'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(f)(1) Any agreement''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) In arranging for training programs to be carried out 
        under this chapter, each cooperating State agency shall, among 
        other factors, take into account and measure the progress of 
        the extent to which such programs--
                    ``(A) achieve a satisfactory rate of completion and 
                placement in jobs that provide a living wage and that 
                increase economic security;
                    ``(B) assist workers in developing the skills, 
                networks, and experiences necessary to advance along a 
                career path;
                    ``(C) assist workers from underserved communities 
                to establish a work history, demonstrate success in the 
                workplace, and develop the skills that lead to entry 
                into and retention in unsubsidized employment; and
                    ``(D) adequately serve individuals who face the 
                greatest barriers to employment, including people with 
                low incomes, people of color, immigrants, persons with 
                disabilities, and formerly incarcerated individuals.
            ``(3) Each cooperating State agency shall facilitate joint 
        cooperation between training programs, representatives of 
        workers, employers, and communities, especially in underserved 
        rural and urban regions, to ensure a fair and engaging 
        workplace that balances the priorities and well-being of 
        workers with the needs of businesses.
            ``(4) Each cooperating State agency shall seek, including 
        through agreements and training programs described in this 
        subsection, to ensure the reemployment of adversely affected 
        workers upon completion of training as described in section 
        236.''.
    (b) Administration.--Section 239(g) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 
U.S.C. 2311(g)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating--
                    (A) paragraphs (1) through (4) as paragraphs (3) 
                through (6), respectively; and
                    (B) paragraph (5) as paragraph (8);
            (2) by inserting before paragraph (3) (as redesignated) the 
        following:
            ``(1) review each layoff of more than 5 workers in a firm 
        to determine whether trade played a role in the layoff and 
        whether workers in such firm are potentially eligible to 
        receive benefits under this chapter,
            ``(2) perform sustained outreach to firms to facilitate and 
        assist with filing petitions under section 221 and collecting 
        necessary supporting information,'';
            (3) in paragraph (3) (as redesignated), by striking ``who 
        applies for unemployment insurance of'' and inserting 
        ``identified under paragraph (1) of unemployment insurance 
        benefits and'';
            (4) in paragraph (4) (as redesignated), by inserting ``and 
        assist with'' after ``facilitate'';
            (5) in paragraph (6) (as redesignated), by striking ``and'' 
        at the end;
            (6) by inserting after paragraph (6) (as redesignated) the 
        following:
            ``(7) perform sustained outreach to workers from 
        underserved communities and to firms that employ a majority or 
        a substantial percentage of workers from underserved 
        communities and develop a plan, in consultation with the 
        Secretary, for addressing common barriers to receiving services 
        that such workers have faced,'';
            (7) in paragraph (8) (as redesignated), by striking ``funds 
        provided to carry out this chapter are insufficient to make 
        such services available, make arrangements to make such 
        services available through other Federal programs'' and 
        inserting ``support services are needed beyond what this 
        chapter can provide, make arrangements to coordinate such 
        services available through other Federal programs'' ; and
            (8) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) develop a strategy to engage with local workforce 
        development institutions, including local community colleges 
        and other educational institutions, and
            ``(10) develop a comprehensive strategy to provide agency 
        staffing to support the requirements of paragraphs (1) through 
        (9).''.
    (c) Staffing.--Section 239 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
2311) is amended by striking subsection (k) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(k) Staffing.--An agreement entered into under this section shall 
provide that the cooperating State or cooperating State agency shall 
require that any individual engaged in functions (other than functions 
that are not inherently governmental) to carry out the trade adjustment 
assistance program under this chapter shall be a State employee covered 
by a merit system of personnel administration.''.

SEC. 133112. REEMPLOYMENT TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    Section 246(a) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2318(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3)(B)(ii), by striking ``$50,000'' and 
        inserting ``$70,000 (subject to adjustment under paragraph 
        (8))'';
            (2) in paragraph (5)(B)(i), by striking ``$10,000'' and 
        inserting ``$20,000 (subject to adjustment under paragraph 
        (8))''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) Adjustment of salary limitation and total amount of 
        payments for inflation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of Labor shall 
                adjust the salary limitation under paragraph (3)(B)(ii) 
                and the amount under paragraph (5)(B)(i) on the date 
                that is 30 days after the date of the enactment of this 
                paragraph, and at the beginning of each fiscal year 
                thereafter, to reflect the percentage (if any) of the 
                increase in the average of the Consumer Price Index for 
                the preceding 12-month period compared to the Consumer 
                Price Index for fiscal year 2020.
                    ``(B) Special rules for calculation of 
                adjustment.--In making an adjustment under subparagraph 
                (A), the Secretary--
                            ``(i) shall round the amount of any 
                        increase in the Consumer Price Index to the 
                        nearest dollar; and
                            ``(ii) may ignore any such increase of less 
                        than 1 percent.
                    ``(C) Consumer price index defined.--For purposes 
                of this paragraph, the term `Consumer Price Index' 
                means the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers 
                published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the 
                Department of Labor.''.

SEC. 133113. EXTENSION OF TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE TO PUBLIC AGENCY 
              WORKERS.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 247 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
2319) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``The'' and inserting ``Subject to section 
                222(d)(5), the''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or service 
                sector firm'' and inserting ``, service sector firm, or 
                public agency''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(20) The term `public agency' means a department or 
        agency of a State or local government or of the Federal 
        Government.''.
    (b) Group Eligibility Requirements.--Section 222 of the Trade Act 
of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2272), as amended by subsections (b) and (c) of 
section 133102, is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f) as 
        subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Adversely Affected Workers in Public Agencies.--A group of 
workers in a public agency shall be certified by the Secretary as 
eligible to apply for adjustment assistance under this chapter pursuant 
to a petition filed under section 221 if the Secretary determines 
that--
            ``(1) a significant number or proportion of the workers in 
        the public agency have become totally or partially separated, 
        or are threatened to become totally or partially separated;
            ``(2) the public agency has acquired from a foreign country 
        services like or directly competitive with services which are 
        supplied by such agency; and
            ``(3) the acquisition of services described in paragraph 
        (2) contributed to such workers' separation or threat of 
        separation.'';
            (3) in subsection (d) (as redesignated), by adding at the 
        end the following:
            ``(5) Reference to firm.--For purposes of subsections (a) 
        and (b), the term `firm' does not include a public agency.''; 
        and
            (4) in paragraph (2) of subsection (e) (as redesignated), 
        by striking ``subsection (a) or (b)'' and inserting 
        ``subsection (a), (b), or (c)''.

SEC. 133114. DEFINITIONS.

    (a) Extension of Adjustment Assistance for Workers to 
Territories.--Section 247(7) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
2319(7)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United 
        States, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
        Mariana Islands,'' after ``District of Columbia''; and
            (2) by striking ``such Commonwealth.'' and inserting ``such 
        territories.''.
    (b) Underserved Community.--Section 247 of the Trade Act of 1974 
(19 U.S.C. 2319), as amended by section 133113(a), is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:
            ``(21) The term `underserved community' means a community 
        with populations sharing a particular characteristic that have 
        been systematically denied a full opportunity to participate in 
        aspects of economic, social, or civic life, such as Black, 
        Latino, and Indigenous and Native American persons, Asian 
        Americans and Pacific Islanders, other persons of color, 
        members of other minority communities, persons with 
        disabilities, persons who live in rural areas, and other 
        populations otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty 
        or inequality.''.

SEC. 133115. SUBPOENA POWER.

    Section 249 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2321) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following: 
        ``The authority under the preceding sentence includes the 
        authority of States to require, by subpoena, a firm to provide 
        information on workers employed by, or totally or partially 
        separated from, the firm that is necessary to make a 
        determination under this chapter or to provide outreach to 
        workers, including the names and address of workers.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Enforcement of Subpoenas by States.--A State may enforce 
compliance with a subpoena issued under subsection (a)--
            ``(1) as provided for under State law; and
            ``(2) by petitioning an appropriate United States district 
        court for an order requiring compliance with the subpoena.''.
